-----------------
ORIGINAL
-----------------

First off, I'm an absolute Middle Earth fanatic, both on the literary page and on the screen (I've seen and read it all, literally). This is my personal perspective on The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies. And if you visit the comment section, I'll detail what's in the EXTENDED EDITION. So stick with me, dear reader, because this review could be long and fraught with emotion. Let us begin!

IMO, BATTLE might just be the best of the Hobbit trilogy. The fans of the book will get their emotional moments, their classic Tolkien lines, and their respect treated seriously, while Peter Jackson reclaims his throne as the living King of Epic, with the Wagnerian grandeur, big feels, and visual splendor he does so well.From the opening moments, wherein Smaug the Terrible rains down an unholy blitzkrieg of dragonfire on unsuspecting Laketown, BATTLE sets a snappy pace and only lets up long enough for you to gasp in awe or dab a tear from your eye. BATTLE is at once the most epic and the most personal of the trilogy. The Company of Thorin have now captured Erebor and are sitting upon a massive hoard of dragon gold. Drawn by riches and power, the forces of good and evil converge upon the Lonely Mountain. War between elves, dwarves, men, and orcs looms fell on the horizon even as darkness creeps into the heart of Thorin Oakenshield, and the Dark Lord Sauron looks to make a comeback.Castwise, Martin Freeman is a perfect JOY to watch as our favourite hobbit (sorry, Frodo) Bilbo Baggins, with ne'er a hairy hobbit foot set wrong. Ian McKellen continues to be perfect as Gandalf: wise and weary, with a glint in his eyes. Luke Evans plays Bard with grave and noble stature, while Lee Pace gives the elf-king Thranduil the regal poise and cold fury of a tiger. Orlando and Evangeline are still physics-defying butt-kickers, but embody Legolas and Tauriel with a humanness about their pointy ears. Benedict Cucumberpatch? or something, is pulling double baddie here, both as the fire-breathing Smaug and the darkly beautiful Lord Sauron. And let's not forget our returning veterans: Cate Blanchett, Hugo Weaving, and Sir Christopher Lee, aka the coolest 92 year old alive!But the film is Richard Armitage's all the way. Armitage portrays the dragon-sick Thorin Oakenshield's descent into madness and ultimate redemption with the charisma and electrifying gravitas of a Shakespearean king. This is a performance for the ages.Before I talk about what I liked about the movie, I want to (briefly) talk about what I didn't. Yes, I have NO problem admitting the Hobbit films ARE flawed. The dependence on digital imagery, the length, and the rushed or slow pacing all hold The Hobbit back from reaching the great standards of LOTR. But, I personally feel, they don't hold it back from being what it is as well: big, bold, beautiful fantasy made with passion, skill, and love for Tolkien.Okay, I'll shut up and talk about the film. The centerpiece of the film is a giant battle, so the action needs to deliver. For this guy...heck YES it DID. Peter Jackson has few equals when it comes to epic scope, visual splendour, and spectacle of Kurosawa-esque proportions! In anyone else's hands, a full hour of fantasy battle would get repetitive, but PJ never sacrifices the high-stakes action for compelling storytelling, character or emotion, keeping all but the snootiest viewers enthralled throughout. And the Battle of Five Armies is his best, most restrained action work since that other movie he directed (The Land of the...Rings or something?).An awe-inspiring Dwarven charge from the gates of Erebor had me shaking and crying like a lunatic (*cough* it was the air conditioning), while the real standout is what might be Peter Jackson's best directed sequence since ever, a stunningly beautiful scene in which Thorin and Azog face off mano-a-mano atop a frozen waterfall. (OH THE FEELS!) And I was MIGHTILY impressed with the CGI. It's by far the best in the series, which makes sense: Weta Digital has had the most time to work on it. Adding to that, Jackson is shooting with hundreds of extras and physical orcs, adding that extra tactile something. Once more the love and dedication put into designing the film's look, costumes, and weapons by the crew shows in every scene.Plus all the other things that you know you're getting from a JRR Tolkien film: the visual splendour of New Zealand, the timeless Howard Shore score, and that magical transport to Middle Earth. In conclusion, I must fittingly award The Battle of the Five Armies with Five Stars. As a fan of epic cinema and fantasy, and most importantly as a Tolkien fan, BATTLE delivered a bold and beautiful send off for the cinematic world of Middle Earth.

 It makes me sad that the journey has come to an end. But Middle Earth, on the page and screen, will live in my heart and soul forever! I want to thank all those who poured their time, their effort and their love into giving these movies to us, the fans. We appreciate your work and your love of Tolkien. Hantanyel órenyallo!And with this, I take my bow. Thank you for reading.P.S. Remember that the like/dislike buttons are not for saying whether or not you disagreed with the reviewer, but for whether the review was helpful in your decision to purchase the film. If this (completely subjective) review was helpful to you, please give it a like. Cheers!P.P.S. CHECK OUT THE COMMENTS SECTION BELOW FOR WHAT WE CAN EXPECT FROM THE EXTENDED EDITION! Spoiler alert!

-----------------
ANNOTATED
-----------------

IMO, BATTLE might just be the best of the Hobbit trilogy. The fans of the book will get their emotional moments, their classic Tolkien lines, and their respect treated seriously, while Peter Jackson reclaims his throne as the living King of Epic, with the Wagnerian grandeur, big feels, and visual splendor he does so well.From the opening moments, wherein Smaug the Terrible rains down an unholy blitzkrieg of dragonfire on unsuspecting Laketown, BATTLE sets a snappy pace and only lets up long enough for you to gasp in awe or dab a tear from your eye.


Battle is the best of the hobbit trilogy. The fans of the book will feel emotional and those moments will be treated seriously. The fans of the book will feel emotional and those moments will be treated seriously. The specific writing style and common lines that are said in the book will be treated seriously. The respect that the fans have for the movie series will be treated seriously. While the elements of the book are treated seriously, the director of the movie adds his own perspective and directing style which is popular with the fans of the book and movie series. The director has qualities associated with the composer and theatre director richard wagner which is a very good point. The director includes great visual elements of the movie which he is particularly good at.
The opening moments set a fast pace. The opening moments are very stimulating and can leave the viewer ina  state of amaze.
plot: 2
Director: 2+2+2
Visuals: 2

BATTLE is at once the most epic and the most personal of the trilogy.
The movie is the best movie from the trilogy.
plot:2

Castwise, Martin Freeman is a perfect JOY to watch as our favourite hobbit (sorry, Frodo) Bilbo Baggins, with ne'er a hairy hobbit foot set wrong.


Martin Freeman is very entertaining. 
Actor:2

Ian McKellen continues to be perfect as Gandalf: wise and weary, with a glint in his eyes. 


Ian McKellen is perfect in his role of Gandalf.
Actor: 2

Luke Evans plays Bard with grave and noble stature, while Lee Pace gives the elf-king Thranduil the regal poise and cold fury of a tiger.

Luke evans plays his character very well. Lee Pace plays his character very well.
Actor: 2

Benedict Cucumberpatch? or something, is pulling double baddie here, both as the fire-breathing Smaug and the darkly beautiful Lord Sauron.

The actor with the first name benedict is playing two characters. He is a voice actor. He plays his characters well.
Actor: 2

But the film is Richard Armitage's all the way. Armitage portrays the dragon-sick Thorin Oakenshield's descent into madness and ultimate redemption with the charisma and electrifying gravitas of a Shakespearean king. This is a performance for the ages.

Richard Armitage is excellent in this movie and the best actor.
Actor: 2

Before I talk about what I liked about the movie, I want to (briefly) talk about what I didn't. Yes, I have NO problem admitting the Hobbit films ARE flawed. The dependence on digital imagery, the length, and the rushed or slow pacing all hold The Hobbit back from reaching the great standards of LOTR. But, I personally feel, they don't hold it back from being what it is as well: big, bold, beautiful fantasy made with passion, skill, and love for Tolkien.Okay, I'll shut up and talk about the film. 

The hobbit films have flaws in them. The over use of digital imagery is a disadvantage. The length is bad. The pace that is set in the movie is bad. The movie is worse than The Lord Of The Rings. There are multiple good points about the film. The film is made with skill and passion. The film is based on the works of tolkien which are very good.
plot: -1+2
visual: -1
Length: -1
Admin: +2


The centerpiece of the film is a giant battle, so the action needs to deliver. For this guy...heck YES it DID. Peter Jackson has few equals when it comes to epic scope, visual splendour, and spectacle of Kurosawa-esque proportions! In anyone else's hands, a full hour of fantasy battle would get repetitive, but PJ never sacrifices the high-stakes action for compelling storytelling, character or emotion, keeping all but the snootiest viewers enthralled throughout. And the Battle of Five Armies is his best, most restrained action work since that other movie he directed (The Land of the...Rings or something?).

The battle scenes are very good and deliver on the movie plot. The director keeps the main scene very stimulating for the viewer and does not make it repetitive which would be a bad point. The action scene is his best as a director with only one other action scene in a movie being comparable.
plot: 2
Director: 2+2


An awe-inspiring Dwarven charge from the gates of Erebor had me shaking and crying like a lunatic (*cough* it was the air conditioning), while the real standout is what might be Peter Jackson's best directed sequence since ever, a stunningly beautiful scene in which Thorin and Azog face off mano-a-mano atop a frozen waterfall.

The director does very well with this part of the movie and stimulates emotion in the viewer. The stand off scene is excellent.
Director: 2

And I was MIGHTILY impressed with the CGI. It's by far the best in the series, which makes sense: Weta Digital has had the most time to work on it. Adding to that, Jackson is shooting with hundreds of extras and physical orcs, adding that extra tactile something. Once more the love and dedication put into designing the film's look, costumes, and weapons by the crew shows in every scene.Plus all the other things that you know you're getting from a JRR Tolkien film: the visual splendour of New Zealand, the timeless Howard Shore score, and that magical transport to Middle Earth.

The CGI is impressive. The CGI is the best in the series. The attention to detail is excellent. The location is excellent. 
Visuals: 2+2+2
Admin: 2
Location: 2

In conclusion, I must fittingly award The Battle of the Five Armies with Five Stars. As a fan of epic cinema and fantasy, and most importantly as a Tolkien fan, BATTLE delivered a bold and beautiful send off for the cinematic world of Middle Earth.

The movie receives the highest rating. The movie delivered.
Movie: 2+2

