5.0
1.0
Give this movie a chance.  sit down, let yourself be immersed into the lands of middle earth, and feel for the incredible characters (especially billy body and sean astin).  ignore the hollywood hype, the stupid jokes about wizards, hobbits, elves, the commercialism of this trilogy and even the eleven academy awards (which i am very very happy about, by the way).  i've heard backlash from people calling it boring, long, "gay" (frodo and sam; merry and pippin), and predictable.  i didnt understand and it angered me that people would be so naive and immature about it.  they say, there's a billion characters, a billion places, and nothing makes any sense.  it's pointless and insignificant because its about made up people in a made up land.  it's not real because nothing of it exists...nobody cares.  it'a about a short guy with hairy feel who tries to destroy this little ring.  if you let it, it will truly inspire you.  it has the power to move and touch your heart in a way you'll never forget.  watch how war, corruption, greed, and hatred destroys...and how it changes the most innocent of beings and who they become.  watch true, pure, and completely unconditional love.  perhaps those who didn't enjoy it doesnt know how it feels to know that you're going to lose in the end, but still finds the strength to go on.  perhaps they don't know how it feels to love someone so much that you would give your life to save them.  times have changed.  the great legends of swords and honor and bravery have passed into the present day in which we kill for money and jealousy, in which we lie and cheat, and soldiers die far from home without a clear reason or cause.  lord of the rings bring back a time when men would follow their kings into death, when friendship and brotherhood was a bond so strong and powerful, when people dont care about fame or fortune, when they lived and fought so that the peoples after them could live in peace.  fairy tale, perhaps.  but heartbreaking nontheless.  and the story is timeless- "even darkness must pass".  watch their eyes and their tears and the undying hope.  THAT, my friend, is what the lord of the rings is about.  you tell me nobody cares...I care."glad to be with you, Samwise Gamgee.  Here at the end of all things"  - Frodo