5.0
0.8484848484848485
I am sure I am by no means alone in having arranged my day to enjoy the entire trilogy, watching both of the special edition DVDs of "The Fellowship of the Ring" and "The Two Towers," taking a break only to go to the theater to buy tickets for the late night showing so I could end the day seeing "The Return of the King."  After the disappointments of "The Return of the Jedi," "The Matrix: Revolutions," and even "The Godfather: Part III," we come to a world in which "The Trilogy" will now refer to Peter Jackson's films in the world of cinema the same way it does to J.R.R. Tolkien's novels in the realm of literature.Things I am savoring the morning after:The ride of the Rohirrim at the Battle of the Pelennor Field.  This ends up being the greatest cavalry charge in cinematic history, as well as the biggest battle scene of all time.  Not only do you have the attack, but the counter-attack, and then the Lord of the Nazgul.  I wish such scenes did not rely so much on hand-held cameras and jump cuts, but that is the way of the cinematic world.  However, it was especially gratifying that the biggest cheer of the night came in my favorite scene from the trilogy, when Eowyn faces the foul dwimmerlaik, although I think Jackson really could have heightened the drama of the moment a lot better and I missed hearing her laugh and speak in a clear voice like the ring of steel.The army of Sauron laying siege of Gondor.  The oliphants were impressive, but so were the catapults flings rocks and pieces of masonry at each other, and the great trolls working the machines of war.  For that matter, the first sight of Minas Tirith was as grand as our first look at Rivendell.The emergence of Pippin as a strong character.  My only serious complaint early on was that Merry and Pippin were the comic relief, a role that was passed on to Gimli (but really belongs to Sam if anybody), and in his service to the Steward of Gondor we finally see Pippin, well, grow up.  And who would have expected that a particularly poignant moment in the film would be Pippin singing a song?Getting to see Andy Serkis as a non-computer generated Smeago.  This is a nice cameo for someone who put on one of the greatest vocal performances in movie history.  The Smeagol-Gollum argument in "The Two Towers" actually created sympathy for this sad little creature, and the credit goes to what Serkis did with his voice, so it seems right that we get to see his face.The idea that in the end, this really is Sam's story.  Not only because he gets the last line in the movie as he does the book, but also because when all is said and done he is the most heroic figure of them all, fighting on for the best of reasons.In the end I was most impressed by how Jackson changed the pivotal moment at Mount Doom, which was a brief scene in the book, into something much more in keeping with the characters and their situation.  Jackson not only sets this up with the flashback that opens the film, but even after the final fate of the ring, where it echoes in a conversation between Bilbo and Frodo.Overall Jackson's tinkering with the sacred text worked well, with expanding the role of Arwen Undomiel so that she was more than King Elessar's Midsummer bride and having Eowyn fix her eye upon Aragorn.  I always appreciated the scouring of the Shire as being appropriate to the sensibilities of an English audience that had endured the Blitz and World War II, but times have changed and the characters clearly bear their own physical and emotional scarring.Yes, devotes of Tolkien's work will all have quibbles with what has been omitted (e.g., Gandalf's confrontation with the Lord of the Nazgul), but hopefully for most of us that just means waiting eleven months for the special edition DVD to be released.  Maybe they will do it sooner next year since it will not have to prime us for the next movie.