8
0.7073170731707317
"Pacific Rim" is a spectacle for the eyes and ears. I mean this movie is a visual treat from well detailed robot and monster designs to high over the top, but well choreographed action sequences and massive collateral damage. The world that Guillermo del Toro creates is imaginative and his character designs are mesmerizing and complex. The sound design and the sheer force of the films score captivates you into a ride of sight and sound that pleases all your senses. From the metal grinding noise of the robots to the fleshy and almost beast like cry the monsters make, this film has you feeling like you are right there in the middle of the action. While the movie is mostly is a visual treat, it doesn’t forget about its characters and there humanity. The film isn’t all bells and whistles, it really does have some really nice character moments in its script, which are about overcoming fear, moving on and trust. These moments make us care for the events that are unfolding. However, the script isn’t all serious business, it knows when to have fun. Some of these moments can be a bit too campy though and some of the emotional moments feel forced. The film sometimes even becomes contrived, mainly towards the end. However, director Guillermo del Toro balances things pretty well. The actors in this film do a pretty good job, but the only real standout is Idris Elba as Stacker Pentecost.This character is sort of the leader of the resistance and Elba commands attention every second on screen. Charlie Hunnam is pretty good as Raleigh Becket, a Jaeger pilot, who left the resistance after a traumatic incident. I wish they showed more of his inner battle, it would have invested us into the story more. Rinko Kikuchi as Mako Mori is really hit or miss. The scenes where she is more reserved are good, but when she tries to emote, it can be awkward at times. The rest of the cast is pretty solid and the supporting cast is pretty good, especially Charlie Day, who brings some of the lighter moments to the film. Overall “Pacific Rim" as a giant robot versus giant monster movie is pretty awesome. The visuals, sound, and well directed action are all top-notch. They provide a treat for the eyes like never before. Even the 3D is spectacular, the best I’ve seen since “Avatar," it really absorbs you into del Toro’s imaginative world. The story, mainly the human element, is a bit weaker as it can feel contrived at times. It keeps us involved, but never takes us to the next level of emotional satisfaction. I give it 4/5, a blockbuster with some of the coolest and most imaginative action that I have seen this year.