2.0
0.9090909090909091
"The Matrix Revolutions", the last in the Wachowski brothers' super sci-fi trilogy, is a mixed bag of criticism.  Most of us already know what everybody else thinks based upon the surprisingly low opening weekend box office of $48.5 million that the film barely scraped, a direct reflection upon the consensus of  the "Matrix Reloaded" back in May of `03.  That's right, folks - for those who were disappointed with "Reloaded", "Revolutions" will only upset your expectations even further.  For those who eat up every fat morsel that the film industry serves up piping hot from the griddle of hype (the teaser trailers in combination with the cheeky Powerade TV ads), you'll love it pound for gluttonous pound.The remainder of this now flaccid storyline has Zion up crap creek without a paddle, their firepower no match for the hundreds upon thousands of Sentinels about to breach the core of the city.  There is something afoot in the Matrix as well - the malicious Agent Smith (Weaving) has proliferated himself throughout the entire system and is more than prepared for a final confrontation with Neo (Reeves).  However, Neo is preoccupied with what measures must be taken to ensure the safety and survival of Zion whilst Trinity (Moss) ever-faithfully prepares herself to accompany him on his most perilous mission yet.As exciting as this apocalyptic final chapter sounds, you know you've lost something when the story completely overwhelms the characters.  Neo, Trinity and Morpheus used to be some pretty damned interesting folks.  In the film that began it all, Neo was introduced as a cocksure novice who slowly but surely realizes his true potential.  Trinity was a strong and admirable yin to Neo's yang, a woman equipped with a lethal combination of beauty and brains.  Morpheus was a wise but humble seeker of truth, a teacher not abject to learning from others.Where the hell did these people go?They were killed off by one deadly mechanism: FRANCHISE.  This was the point at which art was sacrificed for profit and the Wachowskis lost themselves in the high-tech impressionism of computer graphics imaging.  What started as a fantastic premise full of possibilities has resorted to eye-candy for the action movie catalog, a by-product of overzealous marketing.Aside from this noticeable change in the scheme of things is another inexplicable move - the film's grandiose conclusion.  Many people will be baffled as well as fuming, the ending leaving more questions with nothing to provide any answers.  The most significant resulting quandary is why some of us chose to spend nine dollars on over two hours of visual excess only to be swindled by a cryptic ending.  Sorry to say that the entertainment industry has suckered the lot of us once again.Let's face it - the only real fun to be had here is by the actors and you gotta hand it to Hugo Weaving - he's successfully managed to find himself a character in which he can completely indulge in all its salacious evil.  The bad guys always seem to have more fun in overwrought productions such as this and Weaving is clearly having a blast as Smith, cackling and smirking to the hilt while his markedly arched eyebrows and piercing blue eyes consume the screen.Reeves, on the other hand, puts no more energy into his acting than what's required and let's face it - there isn't much of a requisite for emotion.  His designer wardrobe, stylish shades and killer moves are the real showcase and Reeves excels at this but nothing more.  Moss retains her cool surface as does Fishburne, along with Pinkett-Smith as the resolute Niobe.  Don't expect much to change; these are repeat performances, after all.  Mary Alice joins the cast as the Oracle and the presence of a new face in a familiar role is only a bittersweet reminder of Gloria Stuart's passing (a vague explanation was written into the script for why the Oracle appears physically different).Bottom line: If you're just dying to know how it all ends, go ahead and spend the few bucks to rent it.  Just don't expect to be illuminated or amused by it all (or to get your money back!).