5.0
0.9411764705882353
Even with a thousand plus word review, I can never even begin to explain the sheer power and the scope that "Return of the King" really is. The final chapter in this great and apocalyptic trilogy is by far the darkest and most riveting of the three LOTR movies and in my opinion, the pinnacle of filmmaking in just about every way you can look at it.In this epic finale, Frodo Baggins, his companion Samwise Gamgee and their guide Gollum, also known as Sméagol continue on their quest to reach Mt. Doom and destroy the ring by tossing it back into the fiery chasm where it was made. The power of the Ring though has become so strong that it is now causing Frodo's unraveling, his friendship with Samwise is becoming strained from the stress of resisting the Rings power, and Gollum and Samwise are coming into major conflict with each other and Frodo, already carrying a huge burden, has the choice of either going with Sam's or Gollum's advice. However, Gollum secretly has devious plans of his own. Meanwhile, Sauron's massive armies now launch a swift and brutal assault against the Race of Man's remaining refuge Minas Tirith and their remaining king Denethor II, driven mad after knowing of the death of his son Boromir, shuts himself off from the outside kingdom. Sauron is gaining power by every passing minute but the ultimate fate of Middle Earth lies in the hands of one Hobbit, which is Frodo Baggins who is becoming increasingly influenced by the Ring and also is facing decisions to listen to Gollum or his longtime friend Samwise Gamgee who has been coming into fights with Gollum.This movie is the longest of all of the three, coming in at a grand length of 3 hours and 17 minutes but even then, as the movie ended, I did not want it to end. If there is anything that occasionally pokes at my side, it's the omission of Saruman's fate. I originally have passed the news of it off as just media pap but sadly, his demise has been omitted from this movie and I was really eager to see how it happened but we may not be seeing it until the extended edition of this movie comes out. Other than this omission, "Return of the King" is just about as perfect as movies can go. This movie blows any of the Star Wars, and Harry Potter movies right out of the water and into orbit around the earth. Those are great trilogies but nothing rivals the multiple dimensions of the Lord Of The Rings novels that Tolkien created. He created entire languages, entire landscapes and different races of human beings ranging from Elves, to Dwarfs, to Orcs, and the Race of Man, along with countless others too.All of the characters were excellent but there are two I especially want to take note of. Samwise Gamgee to me felt more like just a sidekick to Frodo Baggins but on here, even amidst the setbacks he has gone through, he comes off as being every bit a hero as much as Frodo himself. The other one is Miranda Otto as Eowyn. Eowyn, who was asked to stay behind by her uncle King Théoden, she however defies orders to stay behind, disguises herself and becomes a woman warrior like no other character in any other movie. I would go far to say that she even beats out Ellen Ripley from Aliens as the greatest woman fighter in movie history.The late 1970s and early 1980s animated screen adaptations of the novels were awful in my opinion as the hobbits looked more like giant coconuts and Gandalf and Saruman looked more like bearded figures from bad Christmas Cartoon outtakes. Those animated versions failed so miserably at bringing the novels to life that they turned many away from the series. On the other extreme, Peter Jackson's adaptation of these three novels though, he brings the images that I had imagined from reading the books right onto the big screen. There are some occasional areas where he deviates from some of the story elements but overall, no movie series has ever been so faithful to their books the way Lord of the Rings has and "Return Of The King" does the best job at it.I stated in one of my reviews on the last movie "The Two Towers" that that one was what had the most substance of them all but now I have to contradict that as this final epic installment in the trilogy is by far the greatest of them all and not only to best but also the most heartbreaking masterpiece that has ever been made. This whole movie trilogy will never be surpassed again in any of our lifetimes, if ever, and Peter Jackson has already sealed his status as a directing legend. I have never cried at the ending of any movie the way I did with "Return of The King". Not even "Titanic" from years back broke my heart the way ROTK did. It really brings to mind just the exact things that our world seems to be going through right now, the evil forces of terrorism are moving, corruption in corporations is rampant, and the forces of good who aim to counteract these problems seem to be scattered and in shambles but hope always remains for a better future. As the elves left Middle Earth to the race of men as the Age of Men dawned, I really cannot help but say that if the age of Man continues to this very day, according to Tolkien's timeline, I feel saddened at what man has done to the Earth since the end of the Third Age.Anyhow, go and see this movie. You will never experience moviemaking on an epic scale like this ever again in your lifetime. You will cry, you will laugh, many emotions will come up. I guarantee it.