5.0
0.8554216867469879
Alas, all good things must come to an end, and on December 14, the last milestone in a four-year-long (or decade-long, depending on who you ask) odyssey will be passed.  The release of the extended edition of ROTK is arguably the most anticipated DVD event of the whole year, and with good reason.  I'm assuming that everyone who is interested this early has read about the extra goodies we can expect from Jackson and Co.  Things like the Mouth of Sauron, the orc-march with Sam and Frodo, and (my personal favorite) the blossoming relationship between Eowyn and Faramir, not to mention a whole host of others.  I guess the Extended Editions prove the exception to the rule that less is more.  50 extra minutes is a long time, even compared with the original hefty running time of 3 1/2 hours.  I'm heartily anticipating the numbing my rear is going to receive.When you think about it, The Lord of the Rings should never have happened.  At least, not in this day and age.  We're talking about an unknown director, with no previous experience in epic filmaking, a special effects workhouse in *New Zealand*, of all places, and a smallish production company that really couldn't afford to make a gamble of this magnitude and expect to recover if they lost.  Still, Jackson certainly made sure they got their money's worth, even before the movies became hits.  He made three movies, each over 3 hours long, with copious special effects and a huge cast, for $300 million.  Titanic, a single movie, while admittedly a very ambitious one, had a price tag of about $400 million.  I have no idea how Jackson did it, and I don't need to know.  Even if he never makes another movie as good as LOTR (God forbid!), he will go down in filmaking history as the man who was able to translate an untranslateable classic to the big screen, and still do it justice.  How many "serious" directors can claim that feat, even with less ambitious books?Now, for those who claim LOTR is a lesson for our time, you may very well be right.  Then again, you might not.  Either way, it really doesn't matter.  We all see what we want to see, but I think I'll trust the author's view in this case.  Tolkien was famously contemptuous of allegory, and the least we can do for him is to honor his request that the books (and the movies) be read and seen for themselves, without bringing our own prejudices and justifications into it, at least not on purpose.So, here's to the final leg of the journey.  The most awe-inspiring visual representation that will ever be seen of one of the world's greatest books will be complete in just over two months.  Mark your calenders, folks!  I myself plan to be first in line at the video store that day...