3
0.0
To the reviewer who said "Admit it! Those who hate this movie do not understand it. The rabbit hole is just too deep for them." This person shall now be referred to as the smug dumbass. I expect this comment from hardcore 2001 fans, accusing people who don't share their lopsided opinions as just being too unsophisticated to grasp the film. This movie was not terrible because it was too sophisticated. Quite the opposite actually. Reloaded and Revolutions are filled with pseudo post-modernist rhetorical nonsense in disguise as philosophy, that is, over-complicating the most simple of concepts and passing that off as philosophy, expecting people to see big words and go "oh wow, that must be true then!" Not only is the ending anticlimatic, it ignores the very thing we were told was the goal of the Humans in the first matrix. We're told at the end that it was the goal of the Humans and the characters to stop the war against the machines, while in the first film we were told it was to liberate Humans in The Matrix. So, not only do the Wachowskis not know what they are doing, we are forced to suffer because of it. The battle in Zion, which is about 40% of the movie, has nothing to do with the final resolution, that is Neo and Trinity's journey to the machine city, and Neo's final battle with Smith. So we're forced to sit through a long, dull and uninteresting battle that has nothing to do with the film's climax, with a defence strategy which seems to have been designed by a 6 year old. Neo's final battle with Smith is one of the most uninteresting fight scenes I've seen in any film, and has nothing on the final fight scene between the two in the first movie. The movie is filled with rhetorical nonsense, stupid dialogue and wooden acting (no fault of the actors, just the fault of the terrible script). It was said in Reloaded that Neo was making decisions before he understood why. It seems the Wachowskis also did this before making Reloaded and Revolutions. In their mind, they already made them, now everyone else is trying to understand why they made them. A complete dud. Don't waste your time with this piece of ****