8
0
THIS REVIEW IS FOR THE DIRECTOR'S CUT. I can see the hate on Terminator Salvation compared to James Cameron's films due to the weak writing and the fact its PG-13 but to all you haters on Metacritic, see the R-Rated Director's Cut - It is so much better than the theatrical PG-13 version. McG just cut out the R-Rated material to give it a PG-13 rating which I know, is stupid because what he cut out were important plot points and character development, nudity, and R-Rated material violence is added that includes blood and someone being stabbed with a screwdriver. McG even cut out some character development between Blair Williams and Marcus Wright and John Connor which made the film thin on writing. Terminator Salvation doesn't capture a lot of what made the first two great or Rise of the Machines visually amazing but it is time for a new formula in a new setting. Besides, the whole "Send a Terminator back in time to kill the main character but send another Terminator to protect him/her leading to action" formula was kind of getting tired in the script of Rise of the Machines but hey, there's actually pretty good character development in Salvation even though the script could of been better and more powerful and less thin. Also, why was it lacking substance for Marcus Wright and the Terminators? Sam Worthington was actually flawed but good at his performance as Marcus Wright. James Cameron recommended to McG to have Worthington join the cast, and plays a good infiltrator that has a perfect conflict to his character: Being determined to be an Infiltrator-Terminator by SkyNet or stay as his human self. He was executed in 2003, then reborn as an Infiltrator during the War Against the Machines but his living brain and heart still remains in his body not knowing he was recreated as a Terminator-Infiltrator. Marcus Wright was actually good character communicating with the Resistance and SkyNet when joining the War Against the Machines and facing his conflict of human or infiltrator. Christian Bale was pretty good as John Connor to. He was right for the role of playing John Connor in his 30s as a Military Soldier - better than Nick Stahl in Rise of the Machines. Terminator Salvation is an important to the Terminator franchise. Why? Well, remember in the first when Kyle Reese was sent back in time by John Connor to protect Sarah Connor from the T-800? John Connor has to meet him so he can send him back in time in the future and Kyle can impregnate Sarah so John Connor exists and it shows where the T-800s modeled after Schwarzenegger came from. It also gives a reason why the T-800s in the first two and the T-850 (The infiltrators Arnold Schwarzenegger played) were sent back in time from the 2020s since Terminator Salvation is set in 2018. Though the ending was bit corny when John Connor almost lost his life to the prototype T-800 that was played by Roland Kickinger as Schwarzenegger them Marcus Wright gave him his heart so he could continue fighting the machines in the war but it was a decent resolution giving the audience the message that everyone deserves a second chance (This scene is expanded in the Director's cut with nudity and more violent material) The Director's Cut of Terminator Salvation is Rated R for some violence and brief nudity.