5.0
1.0
As with so many other Tolkein fans out there, I've been anxiously awaiting this release and was finally treated to it after receiving it as a holiday gift.  By way of background, when I initially saw Return of the King in the movie theater (2 or 3 times), I thoroughly enjoyed it but was somewhat disappointed.  Generally, I felt that the filmmakers made certain decisions as to content (i.e., what to include and what not to include) that I would not have made.  Of course, the thing to realize is that the films are derivative of the original books and given the volume of material included in Tolkein's masterwork, it is impossible to include everything in the films.  Nonetheless, I could tell that there were several scenes in the theatrical version which would be expanded in the Platinum Series.While the extended edition of Return of the King does not include "everything I would liked to have seen," it adds so much flavor to an already brilliant film.  For anyone who loves Tolkein or anyone who never read Tolkein but loved the movies, this (and each of the extended editions) are must-haves.  My favorite added/extended scenes are:  (i) the additional details concerning the many battle scenes; (ii) the Mouth of Sauron scene; and, (iii) the scenes w/ Frodo and Sam in Cirith Ungol and Mordor. I was somewhat disappointed with the scene in which "Aragorn Masters the Palantir" (started out well but the ending was not in keeping with the character of soon-to-be King Elessar).  Likewise, "the Voice of Saruman" scene fails to included Gandalf's warning re: the pursuasiveness of the wizard's voice).  The "Hour of the Witch King" also left something to be desired although I loved the courage and bravery of Shadowfax).  Also, it would have been very useful to the plot had the filmmakers included a scene with Denethor using the Palantir of Minas Tirith -- it would give newcomers to Tolkein a better understanding of what drove the Steward to madness.  Finally, it would also have been fun to see a scene at Cirith Ungol where Sam breaks the "Will of the Watchers."I know I'm a harsh critic because I love the books so much but, all in all, this was a wonderful adaptation.  Beautifully done.  Waiting anxiously for Peter Jackson and crew to get working on the Hobbit.