5.0
1.0
The first thing that all these 1 star reviews tells me, is that a large portion of our population has become mind-numb to the subtleties and nuances of comedic brilliance. Perhaps they just prefer loud HD boom-booms, realistic CGI bang-bangs, and pointless choppy action with overblown special effects? Who knows?The movie begins by taking us into a hunter/gatherer village where we meet Black and Cera's characters. The chemistry between the two is immediate and within minutes the movie has you smiling. After Black wreaks a little havoc and eats of the tree of knowledge, he is sent away from the village, Cera joining him somewhat relunctantly. After leaving, their village is raided and the village, including the love interests of the duo, are taken captive. What ensues is Black and Cera on a hilarious, distracted and mishap filled quest to save them, meeting great characters along the way, such as Adam, Cain (played by David Cross) and Abel, Abraham and Isaac and a most delightful and entertaining high priest (played by Oliver Platt).But Year One is without a doubt a fantastic comedy. Jack Black and Michael Cera have a unique chemistry that works marvelously to deliver their lines with comedic brilliance that simply made this movie. I doubt any other duo would have pulled this off, and without Black and Cera, Year One would have probably been deserving of one star reviews. Add to the delightful comedy delivered through Black and Cera's excellent chemistry, an extremely entertaining David Cross, and you have comedy gold. Cross is often under-rated and overlooked in his roles, but his addition as the character Cain, was perfect. As well as Cross' supporting role, we have Oliver Platt playing the flamboyant high priest with such genius and charisma, he easily competes with Cera in stealing some very funny scenes. Platt's role was incredible and I couldn't imagine anyone playing it better.Some may complain that Black was too Black, and Cera was too Cera, but that's what makes us like them. We fell for their own unique quirky acting styles, and to ask for different is nonsense. Do I want to see Cera be more like Vin Diesel? Of course not. Would we like to see Black be more Dinero-esque? Not at all. We like Black and Cera precisely because they are Black and Cera, and this seems to have been lost on many reviewers. And the criticisms leveled against this film in regard to depth and historical accuracy are simply puerile. This is a light, relax and enjoy it, type of comedy - not a deep search of soul with a few well placed laughs. And historical accuracy? Really? You can't exactly be "historically accurate" about events, such as Abraham/Isaac, Cain/Abel, Sodom, tree of knowledge, etc., which never happened. Mythology is always open to licentia poetica, and often makes for entertaining interpretations of classic legends. Such silly criticisms are likely just visceral responses from those who simply dislike Black and/or Cera, or who find such playful, light comedies to be "beneath" them. For me, I'm hoping very much to see Black and Cera return for 'Year Two.' But the myopic reviews of alleged "film critics" may have squashed any hope of a sure to be fantastic sequel.If you are a fan of comedy films which don't ask you to search your soul, ponder pretentious issues, or question paradigms, but rather draw you toward a relaxing break where you can simply sit back and laugh at both slapstick and nuanced humor, then check the film out. But if you think a little too much of yourself, and don't quite understand full spectrum of comedy, then you may be a little too narrow-minded and reserved to appreciate the wonderful comedy of this film. If that's you, keep your one star and save your review for something you understand better.