1.0
0.8
Ok so, I don't want to go into a big "blah blah" statement here. I'll try to keep this short.In the first movie Neo is determined to free all humans from their enslavement by machines.In the end he makes a deal with the source to save Zion after it's pretty much destroyed. His deal is to let the machines continue to use humans as an energy source as long as they leave Zion alone.In the first Matrix Neo is "the one", then in the second he isn't the "one", but one of many. Despite this he manages to transgress part of his humanity and actually has the ability to affect the machines in the physical world. In the third he can destroy the machines, and yet when confronted with the source does nothing. He strikes a deal.In the first Matrix, Trinity is knowledgeble, powerful, a leader if only by example. In the second she's still tough, but nearly gets killed. Neo saves her from her untimely death; a death that would have made sense in the second movie. Trinity would have died for a reason, her personal "greater good". In the third movie she dies, because she dies. Her big kiss off is supposed to be alright because she found Neo. whatever.Mr. Smith is a funny albeit normal agent in the first Matrix. In the second he is freed from the enslavement of the Matrix. That part is still kind of a , "huh?" to me, but it's okay because I love his character. In the third movie ,when it looks as though he could wipe out the Matrix, Neo stops him. Why? Losing all humankind is still better than submission to a force that could destroy you at any given time if you ask me. Besides you'd still have Zion, depending on whether or not they did what I'm about to mention.Zion in the first Matrix is the last bastion of humans that the machines can't get to. In the second we see it, and it's a well gaurded city. We then discover they are drilling down. After the machines breach Zion and start swarming in; the human faction engages in closed combat with them. At a certain point in the third movie they use EMP bombs and it decimates a whole room full of squidies (machines). Why not place loads of these bombs while you have time in the second movie, ahead of where they are drilling, and have your forces fall back. It would have been a lot more economical than wasting complex machinery and human lives on an obviously ridiculous battle.In going to a movie I'm asking to be whisked away for my $9. I don't go to a movie, let alone a sci-fi movie to be let down by a character I've invested time, money and aspirations in. I beleived Neo in the first movie when he says, "I'm going to show these people what you don't want them to see". When he agrees to let people stay batteries so that a single half destroyed city can stay intact, I'm heartbroken. I feel sold out. It's the equivalent of Luke Skywalker turning to the dark side and killing all his friends at the end of Star Wars, or Sauron getting the ring of power in the end of Lord of the Rings. Here's a little secret 'tween us; what made Lord of the Rings successful besides it's huge preexistant fan base, was that there was lots of hardship and struggle, just like the Matrix, but in the end even if by happenstance and luck the destruction of the ring took place. We got our money's worth, and our dedication and time spent payed off. I would have loved to see a good third Matrix, but alas I was deeply disappointed. My only regret is that I couldn't give this movie zero stars.