3.0
1.0
As my wife and I watched this film tonite we kept commenting to each other on how obviously the Die Hard series inspired much of Paul Blart: Mall Cop.  Adam Sandler's Happy Madison production company seems to have fairly liberally borrowed elements of the Die Hard series to come up with a comedic tale of a down on his luck, overweight, wannabe New Jersey State Trooper that just couldn't quite make it through the academy thanks to his battle against hypoglycemia.Sandler buddy Kevin James (previously paired with Sandler in the comedy Chuck and Larry) plays the title role here and does it primarily in a serious style.  Yes there are laughs, and yes James produces them, but for the most part James plays the part seriously while the humor goes on around him.Mall Cop did relatively well in theatres even though it's rating seems to fall about where I've placed it here.  What that seems to show is that the movie going public was hungry for family friendly comedy that this film happened to be released in perfect time for.  There's nothing wrong with this film, and yes it will entertain viewers, but there's really nothing that would set this film at the top of the category either.The video quality on the Blu-ray is good, though for much of the film it seems you'll be watching commercials for all of the well placed goods and store fronts that are featured (on product placement alone the film should have made plenty of money).  Again, given the amount of product placement you'd have to expect that the picture quality would be very good and it is.  Anything less wouldn't highlight the goods well enough to let viewers see the product logos.Audio quality is also good with a soundtrack that features several classic rock and roll performances.  If you can imagine the music of the era that was targeted in The Wedding Singer, you'd probably be in the right ballpark.  Think Money, Eddie; Survivor; Bon Jovi and others.Personal opinion, for most potential viewers this is probably rental material.  It is certainly family friendly, and given the right audience there's probably a little extra value with the soundtrack, but teens through thirtysomethings may look at this film and be somewhat bored.