9
0.5
Guillermo Del Toro is the Man! Pacific Rim was as good as I had hoped. I was thoroughly entertained and it went by rather quickly. I wasn't sitting in my seat all tired and ready to go like some other of the summer movies I've seen so far. I liked that the story was original as were the monsters and robots. I also liked that it was explained why the monsters are attacking. The entire subject of "the drift" and controlling of the Jaegers was completely original and I appreciate everything about it. The CGI was top notch and the use of colors was amazing. The only issue I have with this movie is that I had hoped to see more fighting between the other Jaegers....not just Gypsy Danger. Spoiler Alert...the only scene where we see multiple Jaegers fighting two Kaiju pretty much went the way I had worried it might go. You have (3) Jaegers fighting one Kaiju and they two get their asses handed to them in short order. It reminds me of Iron Man 3. At the end of the movie, he has all of these suits that come to help, but they don't last more than a minute when fighting the enemy. What is the point of having all of those cool suits if you don't get to enjoy them being used for an extended amount of time. The same thing happens here with the Jaegers. In any case...that is a small issue of mine, but not a deal breaker. Aside from that malarkey of mine, I'd like to point out that the cast is fantastic. I never really cared for Charlie Hunnam before, but I liked him in this. Idris Elba is a great actor and I hope to see more of him in the coming years. I didn't care for the movies he's been cast in before, but this was a great role for him. I've never heard of Rinko Kikuci before, but she really grew on me. I hope to see more of her in the future. Lastly, Charlie Day has been on fire the past string of movies he's done. I really liked his character. When Charlie Day and Ron Pearlman are on screen together, it's nothing but gold. I hope that there's a sequel in the works. I enjoyed this one so much I didn't want it to end. I was surprised at how fast it paced along. It's over two hours long, but it flew by. I highly recommend you see it. Great flick!