3.0
0.8666666666666667
The Matrix Revolutions completes the saga of science fiction fantasy films brought to us in part by Larry and Andy Wachowski (hope I spelled that correctly).  The film stars Keanu Reeves (A Walk in the Clouds, Speed) as Neo, the super empowered liberator of the human race, Laurence Fishburne (Just Cause, Boyz in the Hood) as Morpheus, one of the wise leaders of the human resistance movement, Carrie-Anne Moss (Memento, New Blood) as Trinity, a dedicated freedom fighter and the love of Neo's life, and Hugo Weaving (Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, LOTR Trilogy) as the renegade program and Neo's arch nemesis Agent Smith.  Alone, the film stands as a great visual and cinematic achievement.  As a final sequel, it suffers from the all too infamous "Sequel Rule" that has plagued American cinema for decades.  The Wachowskis broke new ground with the original and why they failed to achieve the same success with this film is the basis of this review.  While there are many good things about this film, custom dictates that you dispense with the bad news first, so here goes: WARNING! Spoiler-ladenWhat doesn't work:1) CGI over use.  Like Star Wars Ep.II, this film suffers from an overuse of the overrated CGI technology.  This causes some of the action scenes to be at best choppy and the Sentinel war and the final fight to suffer from a lack of realism and ending up cartoonish.  Better use of the CGI was done in the first two films.2)  Character utilization.  Morpheus, the Oracle, Seti, and most of the other players are poorly utilized in the film.  Perhaps if Morpheus had been at the last stand with Mifune, he could have gone out with the proverbial bang that his character deserved.  Instead he's left crying about the end of the war and how happy he is. It was all just a trifle bit sappy and pathetic.3)  The conclusion.  The most obvious problem is how rushed the ending was and how it leaves the audience and the trilogy with no sense of closure.  The machines are not defeated as we had been led to believe, rather, they enter into a temporary truce with Zion orchestrated by Neo.  Then, the Oracle says that Neo will be heard from again.  Rather an odd statement considering that the Wachowskis have gone on record of saying that there will be no further sequels and Neo dying as a result of being too powerful for Smith to assimilate.  The ending I had envisioned was that Neo would take control of the Machines and the Matrix and shut it all down, thus killing himself and saving Zion.  Everything is left up in the air and it was all too rushed.What works:  1) The death of Trinity.  At least one or two major characters have to die in a film of this magnitiude.  This gives the film a hint of realism in that this shows that success and freedom and all of the other civil liberties we take for granted ultimately come at a price.  2) Agent Smith.  Hugo Weaving continues to dazzle us with his uncanny and over-the-top performance as Smith.  He is a villain's villain in every sense and in my opinion, should be counted among cinema history's most popular and memorable villains.  The scene that truly defined Smith as a character was his last speech to Neo during their final fight in which he urges Neo to give up the fight because all of the things he was fighting for (peace, love, truth, freedom) were only human delusions and that love itself was meaningless because it was invented by humans.  3)  Captain Mifune's last stand.  This scene captivated me because it shows the measure of a how far one ws willing to go to support his cause and when faced with insurmountable odds, he does not back down. Mifune was probably a character that we should have seen more of.  4)  The film score.  Don Davis' score is electrifying and pulsating. It moves the troubled plot along and keeps the audience on the edge of their seat and gives the film a last saving grace.