5.0
0.8333333333333334
Very good movie.  Very intense action, but like the first two installments the plot is paramount.  You can't take this movie at face value.  It requires thought and analysis - and if you are able to give it some thought, I think you will enjoy it.  I would also recommend checking out Reloaded within a day or so of going to see Revolutions.Revolutions is Neo's continuing quest to figure out his purpose.  The basic plot starts out in two directions - first, the machines moving towards Zion attempting to destroy the remaining humans who are freed.  In addition, Agent Smith has made his way out of the Matrix into the "real world" in the form of Bane.  Neo has found that his powers exists outside of the Matrix and now Smith has done the same.  I equate Smith to a computer virus that continues to adapt.  Smith is Neo's dramatic foil and the Oracle tells Neo that he and Smith are "negative twins".Break for the very long intense fight between the humans and machines.  Great battle scene (despite no Neo or Trinity).  Suspense builds as we wonder if Zion can hold off the machines long enough to get support from Niobe & Morpheous.After the fight, Neo makes peace with the machines by telling the machines that Smith is a threat to the machine world just as he is the matrix (at this point, Smith has overtaken the matrix).  The machines then allow Neo to go into the Matrix and attempt to eliminate Smith - in the second film, Smith had adapted and was stronger (than he was in the first film) - unable to be destroyed by Neo.  The big question is how will Neo destroy Smith and what will the implications be.  The way Smith was finally destroyed was very profound.Inside the Matrix, Smith overtook the Oracle, just as he had done to about everyone else inside the Matrix.  We even saw some foreshadowing here, Smith (sounding frustrated) asked the Oracle "if you knew I was coming for you, why would you still be here".  This was the Oracle's choice, and she knew that allowing Smith to overtake her would ultimately lead to his demise.  The oracle said to Neo earlier, "Everything that has a beginning also has an end".Another cool fight scene between Neo and Smith.  Just as Neo was lying on the ground and nearly defeated, he finally realized how to defeat Smith.  This realization came about when Smith said (standing over Neo), "I am now supposed to say - 'everything that has a beginning also has an end'".  Neo then allowed Smith to overtake him, and then the machines pulled the plug that linked Neo into the Matrix.  By pulling the plug, the machines killed Neo and since Smith had overtaken Neo, this ultimately killed Smith.  Thus, Neo (major symbolism here - Neo is Christ-like) dies to save everyone else.  Smith dies and everyone inside the Matrix that Smith had overtaken turned back into themselves - hence the Oracle lying on the ground where Smith was slain.A cut scene shows the matrix "repairing" itself.  The Oracle is sitting on a bench next to Seraph and the little girl (all of whom were earlier overtaken by Smith) and the architect tells the Oracle that she found a creative way to beat Smith.  The end.Conclusion - The matrix still exists.  Big question - was the architect correct when he said at the end of Reloaded that Neo is an anomaly of the Matrix and that 5 others came before him and more will come after him?  The little girl (sorry, can't remember her name) asks the Oracle if they will see Neo again and the Oracle says "I think so".All we know is that the Matrix still exists and that for now the freed humans and the machines are going to coexist.  Another question - will the machines continue to use humans for energy, or will those humans be freed - stay tuned...I think there is more to come.There is a ton of Matrix philosophy on the this web site.  But it is limited to the first film.[...]On the top right, go to the mainframe and then click the box that says philosophy.  A good article on the religious symbolism is "Wake Up!" by Flannery-Dailey & Wagner.