10
0
The final chapter in the groundbreaking trilogy can only be described in epic fashion as a satisfying conclusion, it maintains all the drama, battle, interest, fright and fantasy that its predecessors held, but still manages to inject more life into the story with many twists and turns to feel a sense of despair that's its now over. Saying that, at the time of writing this, The Hobbit trilogy is obviously in full swing, but it's a prequel, so this technically is the end. Just when we thought there was a silver lining after the events of the Two Towers, the battle of Helms Deep was mesmerising yet tragic, but a victory was in toe, yet as we kick off Return of the King, we realise that was only the tip of the iceberg, as Gandalf (Ian McKellan), King Theodin (Bernard Hill), Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen), Legolas (Orlando Bloom) and Gimli (John Rys-Davies) continue their quest to stop the powerful Sauron, who is changing the very landscape of Middle Earth. Aragorn again plays a pivotal part in the finale, attempting to take back a throne that is rightfully his, Mortensen excellently shows so much development of his character over the three films, always fighting the good fight while looking out for those who matter most, now in the midst of leading a rebellion against Mordor. But the real journey still soldiers on with Frodo (Elijah Wood) as he edges ever closer to Mordor, but the ring continues to overburden him, alienating his only friend, Sam (Sean Astin), who can't seem to do right, he continuously warns his friend of the threat of Gollum (Andy Serkis), who has a more expansive role here, we see his humble beginnings as one of the river folk, with his eventual descent into madness well documented. These three must take a secret passage into flaming city in the hope of destroying the ring. What also comes to mind is that these Frodo and company haven't seen any of the original Fellowship since the first film, they aren't aware that Gandalf is alive, but Gandalf himself now knows that the hobbits are still around, we get the sense of hope from his face that they were indeed around only days before. Almost every scene in the film proves significant, they all feel like closing moments of a long-running show, each character we have come to know over the films have very important roles to play in how the war will pan out, even the accidental travellers of Merry (Dominic Monaghan) and Pippin (Billy Boyd), who proved more than useful in the fall of Saruman (Christopher Lee). We also have most visually spectacular of the three, the massive battle scenes on the edges of Mordor are some of the finest elements of the film, one of the smaller charges against the enemy comes to mind as we are treated to a beautiful medley from Pippin as many soldiers ride to their likely death. In terms of the ending, it really should have decided on one, but the film, or entire saga for that matter, has been such an achievement in special effects, writing, direction and acting, the muddled endings can be forgiven, for the crowing battle of Minas Tirith is a wonderful piece of cinema, combining real set pieces with spectacular effects seamlessly, it just works so well. Many will argue the ridiculousness of such a tale as this story comes into full play, debating whether they pack the emotional punch or relevancy of other masterful pieces, but take a look at how much an audience loves to get lost in a supernatural or fantasy world, and why shouldn't they? There is so much to relate to with these characters and the journey they have taken and where it will go, something we can do as well. It speaks volumes when we choose to separate from big bad out there to seek solitude in a riveting adventure, one which Middle Earth will always hold, there will probably be nothing quite like it again.