4.0
1.0
Kevin James trades in his delivery uniform for a mall cop's garb in the family-friendly "Paul Blart:  Mall Cop."It's been years since Blart's wife left him and his daughter alone.  The pair are living with his mother.  While repeatedly attempting and failing to pass training at the New Jersey State Police Academy (due to his hypoglycemia), Blart holds down a job as a security guard at the local mall.  With Christmas in the near future, the mall's business has picked up.Blart finds himself attracted to a new seller, Amy (Jayma Mays), at one of the kiosks in the mall.  Self-conscious and socially awkward, Blart struggles to start a conversation with her.  As the story rolls along, Blart does build a weak friendship with Amy and is also put in charge of training a new hire.When Black Friday comes around, all chaos breaks loose.  A group of skateboarding, BMX-riding thugs take over the mall and collect a small group of hostages (including many of Blart's friends and Amy) to hold off the police.  They plan to steal credit card codes from the higher end stores in the mall and make a quick escape.The only thing standing in their way is Paul Blart.  He stumbles, bumbles and rumbles his way through the scenery, chewing up the mall like a pretzel.  At first he is scared of the idea of taking on professional criminals, but when another person is added to the group of hostages, Blart goes into "Die Hard" mode and begins taking out the criminals one by one.The result is a very funny slapstick comedy for the whole family.  There's very little strong language, limited humorous sexuality, and the cast is, for the most part, very likeable.The DVD comes with many obligatory extras including previews and deleted scenes.  Also included are featurettes on the making of the film.  My personal favorite was the featurette on the many stunts featured in the film."Paul Blart:  Mall Cop" deserves a solid three-and-one-half stars.  It's silly and clean enough for youngsters to enjoy, and the actions of James and company are smart enough to make even the most intelligent adult chuckle.Recommended to families who are longing for a comedy to watch together that isn't animated.  Also recommended to fans of slapstick comedy.