4
0
Terminator Salvation promised to finally let us loose in the nightmarish dystopian future we've only seen glimpses of so far in the series. Yes, the entire film is set after the machines have risen up and destroyed the vast majority of human civilisation, but does this make for a tense and exciting film? No, not really. In all the other installments (including the underwhelming Terminator 3) you have the constant sense of jeopardy, that judgement day is coming, and that made for some brilliant tension. In Salvation, however, all that doom has already occurred, and all that remains is the gloom. The storytelling is pedestrian, McG's action direction is competent but uninspiring, the new models of terminator we see look like rejected designs from the Transformers art department and most of the actors look like they're in it for the money alone. Christian Bale shouts and Batman growls his way through the film playing an older John Connor, Bryce Dallas Howard is wooden as John's pregnant wife Kate, Moon Bloodgood's pilot is just the typical warrior woman with truly ridiculous tousled hair and Michael Ironside really stretches himself playing yet another stern military leader. At least Anton Yelchin is decent as a young Kyle Reese and Helena Bonham Carter is good as always when she's briefly on screen as a terminally ill Cyberdyne scientist whose actions instigate many of the film's key events. The real highlight of the film, though, is Sam Worthington - his character Marcus is an incredibly tortured soul, and a fascinating tribute to numerous icons of film and literature - everyone from Frankenstein's Monster to Jason Bourne is in there somewhere. He makes for an utterly compelling protagonist in the hands of Worthington who manages to make Marcus tough and gruff, but also incredibly sympathetic. It does annoy me that the original idea for the film had Marcus as the central character, until Christian Bale was cast as John Connor, prompting the script to be re-written to focus on him instead. The original film concept would have certainly resulted in a more satisfying final product, as though John Connor is undeniably at the centre of the Terminator saga, he's not a particularly interesting character in himself. Aside from showing Sam Worthington at his very best, and having quite an entertaining finale that has some crowd-pleasing callbacks to earlier Terminator installments, Salvation offers very little apart from grey visuals, moody pessimism and a predictable plot. You only have to re-watch James Cameron's masterful first two installments, and even the flawed third film in the series (which still offered the odd thrill and plentiful camp humour) to see how much the glowing cybernetic eye has dulled over the years. Perhaps it's because of the absence of Mr Schwarzenegger, perhaps it's because there's no time travel, or that all the interesting stuff has already happened by the time film begins, or maybe it's because Christian Bale threw a tantrum and McG has very limited talent. Whatever the reason, Terminator Salvation is a rather dull film, which is almost worse than being a bad one. Is this the death of the Terminator franchise? I almost hope so.