5.0
0.9166666666666666
This past week, I had the rare privilege of watching the Lord of the Rings with someone who had never seen it.  He is a friend of my youngest brother (17 years old, in High School), and I figured that if he was watching these films for the first time, he might as well watch the extended editions.He saw Fellowship 2 weekends ago and loved it.  Then he saw the Two Towers last Saturday, and was very eager to see the final chapter.  Incidentally, the last extended edition was out this past Tuesday, and yesterday, my brother, this friend and I sat for the Return of the King and watched it from beginning to end, integrated scenes and all.To be able to see the expressions of shock, wonder, suprise, and conviction as someone watches the Lord of the Rings movies for the first time; the feelings of cinematic release that I myself went through when I was introduced to these films, is quite hard to put in words.  Let's just say another fan has been added to the list.Just as magical was being able to suprise and shock my younger brother and his friends even more with the enriched history and sheer emotion of the books; describing the last chapter in the "Two Towers", and how intense 'The Choices of Master Samwise' is as you read it, and how you do not want to stop reading the rest of the story until the very cracks of Mount Doom have come and gone; seeing their eyes widen and their curiousity abound as I explain the history behind some of the amazing detail that has been included in these films, like Shelob's mother (Ungolianth), or Erendil's light; the saga of the Valar and the Silmarillon, and Morgorth and his many Balrogs.The best part of this experience in Middle Earth is more personal.  Last night my younger brother and his friend asked why, once the climax had passed, there was a need to show so much of the aftermath.  I realised then that while it took courage for Frodo and the fellowship to fight their battles and face their fears, especially with almost no hope; once the worst arrived, and the sacrifices were made, a new courage was needed, to face life after 'The End of All things', and to continue to live it.  I told them about the casualties of war, and how so many soldiers who have served and suffered, return home, only to find their lives can no longer be the same.  Many do not know how to go on living a normal life after experiencing the horror and pain that comes from war.  It takes courage to keep on living, to find happiness that brings peace.For me, this movie shows what courage is like - it shows the many forms of courage.  Not 6 months ago, my other, older brother (27 years old, graphic designer) died very suddenly, and tragically.  One moment very close, the next, ripped out of my life; once living and breathing, funny and God fearing, my mentor - my friend; now, only memories - many, many good, some sad, all, usually painful.  It takes courage to persevere past the pain of losing a loved one, and struggling, fighting to find meaning, happiness, and faith in life - happiness that will bring peace.These movies are much more than entertainment or great cinema, they are instruments of hope, spanning the spectrum of life's deepest sorrows, and most meaningful truths.  They are a treasure, truly, truly dear and precious to me.For that, I am thankful.