0
0.37142857142857144
The script was awful, the CGI was good, the story was stupid, and the physics of everything... just impossible. - Seriously, building enormous robots, out of heavy metal, only to have them fist-fight with sea monsters? Punching and throwing monsters on buildings? I have no words to describe how stupid that really feels. Why do they have plasma guns if they only use it AFTER being ass kicked Is the plasma too expensive for them? Are they running on car batteries and they don't want to waste the power? At the end, one of the robots seem to have discovered a swordlike weapon. Wow, that could have been useful earlier. - Another gem was the UN chairman saying they wont fund the robots anymore... like they have a choice... I cannot see the other choice though... Do not tell me the other choice was building walls. It's ridiculous. - Judging by the size of the robots and monsters fighting... in the sea... every time they fell, a giant wave should have started and clean the land. Instead, nothing like that happens. - The worst scene ever was when the ginormous robot picks up 2 buses and use them to splatter the head of a monster... Like just using it's ginormous metal hands wouldn't be enough. The buses must be built of stronger steel than the robot itself? - It was "awesome" the fact that the scientists had to physically go to the army base in order to tell them that it's not gonna work (the plan). This is happening in 2017 or 2027? Awesome... so they uninvented the phones cellphones... - It picks up buses in it's hand, then later it picks up a huge navy boat. Judging by their proportions, that ship was no taller than a bus, only longer. Really? - In the ending fight scene... underwater... those monsters roar like they are on the surface. Awesome again. - The idea to send an atomic bomb inside the rift came to them after 10-15 years from the beginning of the attacks, after tens of millions of civilian deaths... sounds reeeeaallly realistic :) - On the base, the oxygen levels from inside the robot, are still readable from inside the rift (inter-dimensional portal) - When the rift (bridge) collapses, it's representation in the army base shows it as it happens... in realtime... with nice effects... wow... the programmers of the future thought of everything, also installed sensors from top to bottom of the rift without even going there? - The fighting scenes are so dark and shot from such angles so that I could not understand what was happening most of the time. - And seriously... 6 helicopters move around the robots? Those giant metal machines? That is impossible, to say the least. - The black market guy, just stands and chats while at two feet from a giant monster that 10 seconds ago was demolishing buildings and boats, and only seemed to die from no reason at all? That is realistic in what universe? - Why would the head of the robot need to be detachable from the body? Why did the pilots have to enter the head... somewhere 10 feet above the 20 meters high robot, and after they entered the head... it would start descending into it's place... These stupid moments could have been used to develop some characters background stories - No story for the characters. Besides the surviving brother and the surviving Japanese girl no other character has any story? Let's say I liked the fighting scenes... More like the idea of the fights. But they were too long, and too silly. Fighting with their fists against sea monsters... that is just peachy. I expected so much more from this movie... now I have no idea why