1.0
0.8
When the first Matrix came out, it more or less revolutionized the action genre.  Old-style gunfights could never again compete with the groundbreaking special effects provided.  The martial arts of an American action movie were finally brought up to par, more or less, with many of Hollywood's Hong Kong counterparts.  The science behind the film of course, was about as goofy as it gets but the story was compelling and the characters likeable.  The acting made up for the pseudo-philosophical preaching of the script.  Characters like Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith proved to be just as engaging as the protagonists of Laurence Fishburne's Morpheus were.  All in all it was an exceptionally satisfying action film. The second volume in the trilogy did a great injustice to the first by more or less throwing the entire premise away.  The dialogue was trite and cliché and the acting was sub-par to say the least.  The film started out with one of the most ridiculous space-fillers of all time.  Something like Club Mtv resurrected for the new millennium.  The only redeeming factors of the film were the spectacular action sequences.  A memorable car chase featuring evaporating gunmen with dreadlocks and a signpost being used like a baseball bat for Agent Smith-balls were visual highlights for the entire year.  The Wachowski's clearly fumbled though. Along comes Matrix: Revolutions.  This film is loaded with all the negative baggage of the second film with little of its redeeming qualities.  Besides bring back a dance party that should have never made it into the second film, this film somehow deprives Agent Smith of the sinister charm from the other two films although all the best lines are still his.  The mumbo-jumbo that Morpheus continually enunciated has spread like a virus to all the characters.  The tension between Neo and Trinity in the first film fell off a cliff in the second film and gets even worse here.  It's almost as if the Wachowski's have taken screenwriting lessons from George Lucas.  The characters in this film are so unlikable that one really hopes the robots with finish them off, or at least, kill all the humans who have had lines.  The action sequences, while entertaining, fail to live up to, or really approach in any fashion, the first two.  The only exceptional one involves the initial machine entrance into Zion. Matrix: Revolutions is one of the worst films of the year.  Countless films have at this point knocked off and downright plagiarized the effects of the first Matrix.  Others have even ripped off parts of the plot.  Matrix: Revolutions is as bad as what is at the bottom of those barrels.  The plot doesn't seem to have any direction.  The ideas behind it are muddled.  The final battle between Neo and Smith even ends in a way that has no explanation.  It's a cheap cop out.  Even Monica Bellucci in latex can't save this debacle.  People are going to see this film anyway but I only can hope they throw their money away on a matinee.