4.0
0.75
Sure, it's lewd, crude, and basically ridiculous, but Soul Plane is also a very funny movie, and that is what really matters.  Certainly, it could be better - it starts out with an actual plot, but that pretty much falls to the way side once Flight 69 is airborne on its maiden flight, and the film doesn't end so much as it just stops playing.  It's also full of clichés and toilet humor, and those without a sense of humor when it comes to this sort of thing will probably deride the racial stereotypes put in play here.It's a pretty simple story idea.  Nashawn (Kevin Hart) turns a toilet-related in-flight mishap (along with the horrible death of his dog) into a lawsuit-garnered one hundred million dollar windfall.  Having seen firsthand how an airplane passenger should not be treated, he decides to take his money and start his own airline - and thus NWA Airlines, the first all-black airline, is born.  The radical transformation begins in the terminal, but the pink hip-hop plane with its bootylicious flight attendants, drastically different passenger compartments, onboard bar and dance floor, and overall atmosphere is unbelievably over-the-top.  Then you throw in Snoop Dogg as the plane's captain and inject a white family headed by Tom Arnold into the mix, and you've got one crazy movie.  A few things don't work very well, especially the white boy who instantly transforms into a hip-hop video director and, to some degree, the incredibly gay male flight attendant, but most of the jokes, no matter how crude or obscenity-laced, are quite funny.  The two female security guards deserve special recognition for their hilarious efforts.Most people should already know whether or not they are likely to enjoy Soul Plane before watching it; making Airplane look like lofty, sophisticated humor, this film seemingly takes great joy in seeing just how low and far it can push the envelope of humor.  If you think every film should have a point other than simple entertainment, you should not book a flight on the Soul Plane.