4.0
0.8333333333333334
"Little Miss Sunshine" is yet another quirky indie comedy, this time about a dysfunctional family roadtrip.  Every character has the requisite wacky personality and/or oddball mannerisms (as is the case in every film of this type).  The plot is minimal and contrived, existing for the sole purpose of forcing this unlikely family together.  Handled incorrectly, I would usually loathe this type of film.  So I'm pleased to report that "Little Miss Sunshine" is far more successful than it has any right to be.  While I still feel as if this "little" picture was slightly overpraised upon it's release, it provides many laughs and works as screwball comedy.One thing that sets "Sunshine" apart from similar indies is a stellar cast.  Greg Kinnear and Toni Collette do fine work as the embattled parents.  Abigail Breslin brings a refreshing blend of hope and delusion to the title character.  Alan Arkin chews the scenery as the foul mouthed addict father--it's nice to see him again, especially in such a showy in-your-face performance.  Steve Carell is surprisingly sympathetic as the depressive gay brother.  And Paul Dano delivers the movie's best performance as the disconnected son who has taken a vow of silence.  So even though this colorful, supremely eccentric bunch are character "types" as opposed to real people, the actors make it work.  The moments of drama that appear succeed only because the actors make you care.But, first and foremost, this is a comedy.  And I forgave the calculated eccentricities because the film is simply funny.  Outrageous and slapstick, yet smartly observant, this film earns your respect and laughs.  It's a fun ride with many identifiable situations.Beloved by audiences and most critics upon it's release, I would hesitate to overhype this film for the DVD market.  A viewer who discovers this picture is likely to appreciate it's charms more than someone who goes into it having heard it's the best film of the year.  "Little Miss Sunshine" is not particularly original (it shares many plot elements from "Vacation," in fact)--but it is extremely well done.  KGHarris, 11/06.