2
0.44
For the record, I had zero preconceptions about this movie. The only thing I knew about it was from a cup from Carl's Jr. that had the robots on it (which came to be called Jaegers). My boss decided to have a team building day the friday it came out and he took us to see it. Story interesting, but contrived and predictable. Dialogue terrible. I was rewriting the script in my mind. The Japanese girl does not speak like a Japanese girl, aside from her accent. It's unnatural. Raleigh apparently just isn't intelligent. And the black guy tries so hard to be "bad cop" but his demeanor doesn't fit it. You can tell he cares about everything and everyone. He doesn't just want to win, though that's how he's trying to come off. The best part was the "don't touch me" conversation about 5 seconds of dialogue. Cinematography most of the fight scenes were so close up you couldn't tell if it was kaiju or jaeger. Visual aspects Amazing. This was the reason it didn't get a zero. The kaiju and the jaegers were mind blowing creations that really came to life. The insides, the outsides, their movement (though I will touch on that in the next section) Execution I have a problem with suspension of disbelief. Whereas one person may say "THAT WAS AWESOME!!" I would say "that is impossible because of these reasons" and completely check out of the movie. This is what we had here. The way certain things were done were so fantastical that I couldn't get my mind to wrap around them. The jaegers are too big to move the way they do. And to be lifted like that with helicopters (if six helicopters can't pick up a freight ship, they sure as hell can't pick up a jaeger that uses a freight ship as a baseball bat). And not to crush themselves when they fall. It cheapened them for me. Also, how is it that the sword becomes the most useful weapon, but isn't used until the end? And why is the plasma cannon not the first line of defense? If my hand became a giant firearm, you can bet that i'd put it in a headlock (which was done several times) and blow it's head clean off of its shoulders. Kaiju dead. This is why I say the story is contrived.