5.0
0.8333333333333334
I didn't expect to love this film as much as I did - especially as it was my very last choice when I was desperate for a movie. Man, am I glad there wasn't anything else on - it would have been a tragedy to miss this.The film itself is the tragic tale of a family of screw-ups making their way across the US to attend a children's beauty pageant. The plot is really secondary to its characters. And what a bunch of characters. My personal favourite is Uncle Frank, a suicidal, gay, Proust professor. (Hell, if I spent my life specializing in Proust, I'd be suicidal too). Considering Steve Carrell's surprising restraint in the role I was surprised that every time I saw Frank I started laughing involuntarilty (even when he was just sitting or standing motionless). Condemned to spend most of the film stuck with the family's sulky, misanthropic son who has taken a vow of silence, Frank serves as our semi-normal proxy into the world of this extraordinarily strange family.The most extraordinary character in this menagerie is Grandpa (Alan Arkin), a foul mouthed heroin using curmudgeon who can't go a single scene without being offensive. In short, I loved him. He had some of the best lines in the film (e.g., "Get me some porn... the real nasty stuff"). He's the sort of character that you can't take your eyes off, even when he's unconscious, in case you miss his next trick. I haven't seen many Alan Alda films, but if this is a gauge of his calibre then I'll be raiding the video store for more.Toni Collette as the long-suffering mother appears to be the only normal member of the family, although she gives the sense of unravelling at the edges. Olive, the sweet and innocent daughter who wants to participate in the Little Miss Sunshine contest seems to be at the centre of the family and in a weird twist is ultimately their redemption. Rounding off the cast is Greg Kinnear as the Success Coach father, whose attempts at inspiration seem to have the complete opposite effect. Again, like most of the others, he also seems to be coming apart at the seams.I'm pretty sure there was a message to this film, but I'll be hornswozzled if I can figure it. It seems to be about the pursuit of success, by people who have never had it and probably never will. For all his talk of being a winner, the success coach father's life is one of endless failure... but he keeps plugging away. Olive has no chance in hell of winning the beauty pageant, but she goes for it no matter what. Uncle Frank can't seem to win no matter what he does but at least seems to have resigned himself to failure and ultimately finds some meaning in it. The Neitzche driven son, driven to the edge by his pursuit of success is probably the most tragic loser of the group, but his ultimate destruction is also the most amusing (at least to me).I don't know, maybe it's just me, but I adore films about losers, and this seemed like the jackpot for me. Even the Simpsons weren't as pathetic as this bunch. Thanks and triple thanks to Jonathan Dayton & Valerie Faris for bringing me this glorious display of human wretchedness. If only there was a sequel.