1.0
0.7692307692307693
I am dumbfounded at how many people actually gave this film five stars. Imagine if Darth Vader, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo and Princess Lea where all given bit part roles to play in the final movie of the trilogy and Jabba the Hut, a Jawa, a Storm Trooper and an Ewok where made the central focus characters? Would you like that? Well this is EXACTLY what Revolutions does!Okay so Terminator 3 was no Terminator 1 or 2, but it was satisfactory! Return of the Jedi was the weakest of the series but that too was satisfactory. Star Wars Ep.1 was nothing like the originals but again at least it was satisfactory.Revolutions is nothing like the above. It is more akin to the kind of sabotage that we see in movie remakes!The filmmakers obviously have absolutely no idea what made the first film so good. Reloaded and Revolutions have gone down the road of Disney cartoons instead of staying on the patch of action comic book type appeal. It was a tremendously bad call by the filmmakers to focus too much on Zion and bring bit-part characters to the forefront of the movie. Morpheus is forgotten about and does little more than sit in a co-pilot seat next to Niobe throughout the movie. It was Morpheus who made the metaphysical statements cool. When the same things are spoken by some bit part characters... (who are given a leading roles!... oh what a crisis!... you simply DO NOT DO THAT.)... it just sounds plain stupid and dumb. NEW CHARACTERS are introduced that serve very little function and are forgotten about just as quick. The Trainman appears as an important character and then... disappears. His whole scene at the start of the movie with Neo served absolutely NO PURPOSE. The Architect materializes briefly at the end for a few lines to try and consolidate everything. Persephone is back again with the Merovingian as if nothing is wrong after her releasing the Keymaker in Reloaded. The Twins who disappeared in Reloaded are obviously vaporized, because they are not here.The original Matrix was a high like no other. Reloaded was satisfactory and at least had some knockout action sequences with elements that where in the first Matrix and a few extra scenes here and there to help develop the story around Zion. Okay so the dance scene at the start was totally out of place but in Reloaded as soon as Neo met the Oracle it was the Matrix rocking like you mother from start to finish. Revolutions is NOTHING like Reloaded and it certainly is at the opposite end of the spectrum when compared to the original Matrix.Questions that where created in Reloaded are left unanswered. What is it with the Indian family who take up almost fifteen minutes talking at the start of the film? The copout for replacing the Oracle with a new actress is explained in the worst possible way..... AND WHOEVER WROTE THE SCREENPLAY DIALOGUE SHOULD HAVE HIS PAYCHECK REVOKED! What a cliche driven script! You will not believe the stereotype dialogue on display here! Seriously it is a SIN to do what they have done to the Matrix series. Watch the climatic scene between Neo and Trinity which lasts for ages. Listen to what they are saying! Watch Neo stand for a few minutes in stupidity as Bane, who sounds, talks and moves just like Agent Smith, almost has to tell Neo who he is before the penny drops with our savior character! Bill and Ted where on the screen for a few moments there. Sssshesshhh.....The filmmakers have stamped all over this film as if they are out to harm the entire series - or maybe - is it just possible ..... that the first Matrix movie was just made a FANTASTIC MOVIE by accident? Everything on display in Revolutions seems to point to that conclusion.There are only two key action sequences in this film. One which revolves around warriors controlling "Aliens" type robots with guns and the machines crashing around the place with lots of gun-fire and explosions. It is excellent stuff for the first few minutes but far too much time is spent on it. We WANT to see NEO getting it on with Agent Smith!... and finally ... (and it is a long time coming) when it appears, it is nothing compared to the Alleyway Brawl we saw in Reloaded.This film is a disaster. Even if it where like Reloaded it would have been an acceptable movie but it seems almost like some sort of Direct to Video type movie. The filmmakers should never have given our principle characters a back seat to other bit part actors. They should have reduced the Zion fight sequence by at least three-quarters of the running time and put that space into Neo and Smith getting it on in some way shape or form. The screenplay should have been revised from the start instead of plowing so much money into the Zion action sequence. It is very hard to describe what an utter disappointment this film was. It could possibly be one of worst mega-budget pictures ever made. Fans will feel downright conned. Those who are looking for popcorn fodder will probably find it okay-ish entertainment but if we wanted to watch okay-ish entertainment we would hope to find that somewhere else other than in one of the most expensive sci-fi films ever made. Thank God that the Lord of the Rings is there to redeem our faith in high-concept large budget fantasy films. Revolutions is a prime example of a marketing confidence trick marred with bad acting, bad writing and bad direction. The special effects are on top form but this DOES NOT MAKE A MOVIE.Revolutions is a bad stain on the Matrix series - if not trilogies as a whole. Fans should voice their disapproval so that this sort of humiliation does not happen again.