5.0
0.8947368421052632
Little Miss Sunshine is easily my pick for best film of the year.  At the same time, I won't say that you've never seen a movie like this one before.  It treads familiar territory and dredges up some recognizable character types, like the silent broody teen and the dirty old man, but it doesn't belabor them; instead it reminds us why we find situations and individuals like these so relatable.  It's a road trip movie.  It's a dark comedy, but it's also something else altogether.There are sight gags a plenty and some dysfunctional family fun that walks a fine line between trite and genius, but I (and 93% of the critics on [...]) believe that the performances tip the balance in favor of genius.  Alan Arkin is extraordinary as the cantankerous, heroin snorting grandpa with a heart.  Toni Collette and Greg Kinnear, as the emotionally fatigued married couple, have an onscreen chemistry that threatens to blow up at any minute.  (Boo!  Kenney, that's such a cheesy line.  You can do better.--I know.  I know.  But I couldn't resist.  Watch the movie and you'll see what I'm talking about.)  And we all know Steve Carrell can be funny, but who knew he could play tortured too.  And here's something that's entirely refreshing: a seven year-old character, Olive, who is more naïve than she is precocious, and an actress, Abigail Breslin, who pulled it off realistically.  She did more than pull it off really.  She sold it, and I bought every tear and toothy grin.The opening sequence introduces the characters and their particular quirks in a series of one-minute shots, so the audience member knows right from the beginning who these people are and basically what's wrong with them.  Most of their backstories are taken care of around the dinner table, and then the movie literally hits the road when the whole family piles into a cheerfully yellow VW bus to take Olive to California, where she has a chance, by way of the only stroke of good luck in the entire script, to compete for the title of Little Miss Sunshine and fulfill her beauty queen aspirations.The storyline tackles some grim and seedy subjects: divorce, suicide, drug-use, romantic pitfalls, failed careers, and we don't always get to laugh our way through them.  With this movie, just like in life, you've got to take the good with the bad.  In fact, Little Miss Sunshine accomplishes the nearly impossible and makes us grateful for the tragedies that occur, because that's when we get to see who the characters really are.  Like in the case of Dwayne (Paul Dano), the teenage son whose vow of silence prevents him from talking for the majority of the film.  We don't even get to hear him speak until he experiences his great disappointment, and it's not long after he starts talking that he reveals himself to be much more affectionate and protective of his little sister than his angry facial expressions let on.You might start to think that Dwayne's got the right idea when you notice that some of the film's best moments are utterly quiet.  Nobody ever says the right thing in this movie.  No problems are solved just by talking them out.  In fact, most of the time talking just leads to more problems.  These characters learn to take action, and they get the job done.  While the results--you can't really call them solutions--aren't always satisfactory for them, for the audience they are never less than entertaining or cathartic for that matter.Be prepared to laugh, hard and often, so much so that you won't see it coming when it's time to cry.  I realize that at the beginning of my review I made it sound like Little Miss Sunshine might be borderline cliché, but that was just me anticipating other people's possible complaints, certainly not asserting my own.  But regardless of how original you do or don't think this movie is, it delivers some big surprises.  Some of them you might see coming, but I highly doubt you could guess them all--just wait until you find out what Olive's talent is!I hate to use the term dramedy.  I choose to think a movie like this one actually collapses genres rather than blends them.  But nevertheless Sunshine offers a good mix of strong emotion and light-hearted farce for everyone to enjoy.  For all you heady types, there's a healthy helping of Proust and Nietzsche in there.  For all you who would prefer slapstick, there's a good dose of that too, along with some pretty funny one-liners as well.This film has a lot to say about life and disillusionment, expectations and harsh realities, but it says it with a smile and sometimes through clenched teeth.  Its message never gets lost in all the absurdity, and it wasn't lost on me either.