1.0
0.7741935483870968
Having given the theatrical release of this movie 1 star, after viewing the DVD I can not say that my impressions have changed that much. In fact I can now clearly see why I did not like Revolutions and why many others did not like it either. The central problem with Revolutions is that bit-part actors and actresses are given leading roles that are immensely time consuming. So much so that everyone who made the first Matrix so good have literally been given a backseat to Niobi's driving skills or a token Kid that saves the day. Forget Morpheus's slick philosophical statements while dressed in black. Here he just wears a woolly jumper and sits around wondering just what is going on. Imagine if Darth Vader, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo and Princess Lea where replaced at the end of the trilogy with Jabba the Hut, a Jawa, a Storm Trooper and an Ewok made the central focus characters? Would you like that? Well this is EXACTLY what Revolutions does! Zion is really what has gone wrong here. By expanding the depth of the Matrix story the filmmakers have missed the mark of what made the first Matrix so good and this is a problem for the audience. In short, and for all intensive purposes, Revolutions does not resemble the original movie in any way shape or form. In fact the only thing that Revolutions has in common with the original film is the characters. Now we have been introduced to a battle between the machines and Zion - in an environment where Neo will not be found... or Morpheus ... or Trinity... or Agent Smith. This battle sequence is the BIGGEST part of the film. So for thirty odd minutes or so you will certainly NOT be watching any form of the Matrix... but heck this was never about the Matrix in the first place. Reloaded and Revolutions where designed to move between plot banality and theme-park type experiences WITHOUT the metaphysical `thought' and `dialogue' that made the original Matrix what it was. You are paying to see a empty spectacle - nothing more, nothing less.Those who have done their homework will realize that the filmmakers have forgotten a lot and provided us with simple excuses so that they can bring on the next big special effects scene. Like I said already NEW CHARACTERS are introduced that serve very little function and are forgotten about just as quick. The Trainman appears as an important character and then... disappears. His whole scene at the start of the movie with Neo served absolutely NO PURPOSE. The Architect materializes briefly at the end for a few lines to try and consolidate everything. Persephone is back again with the Merovingian as if nothing is wrong after her releasing the Keymaker in Reloaded. The Twins who disappeared in Reloaded are obviously vaporized, because they are not here. What happens to Seraph? What happened to the Merovingian? They are here in Revolutions but don't expect they actually play an important role in much because whatever they say or do means nothing by the time the end credits role and here is also another problem. The ENDING of the original Matrix is so much better than Revolutions that the sequels seem pointless. But there we really have summed it up. This is a money making high budget sci-fi movie, end of story. People are going to watch it so why not experiment? Sadly that experiment does not pay off simply because it breaks too many rules... rules that the original Matrix created for us. The original Matrix was a high like no other. Reloaded was satisfactory and at least had some knockout action sequences with elements that where in the first Matrix and a few extra scenes here and there to help develop the story around Zion. Okay so the dance scene at the start was totally out of place but in Reloaded as soon as Neo met the Oracle it was the Matrix rocking like you mother from start to finish. Revolutions is NOTHING like Reloaded.Like we said questions that where created in Reloaded are left unanswered. What is it with the Indian family who take up almost fifteen minutes talking at the start of the film? The copout for replacing the Oracle with a new actress is explained in the worst possible way..... AND WHOEVER WROTE THE SCREENPLAY DIALOGUE SHOULD HAVE HIS PAYCHECK REVOKED! What a cliche driven script! You will not believe the stereotype dialogue on display here! Watch Neo stand for a few minutes in stupidity as Bane, who sounds, talks and moves just like Agent Smith, almost has to tell Neo who he is before the penny drops with our savior character! Bill and Ted where on the screen for a few moments there. Sssshesshhh.....The bottom line here is that this film is a disaster. Even if it where like Reloaded it would have been an acceptable movie but it seems almost like some sort of Direct to Video type release on a big budget. It is very hard to describe what an utter disappointment this film was. It could possibly be one of worst mega-budget pictures ever made. Fans will feel downright conned. Those who are looking for popcorn fodder will probably find it okay-ish entertainment but if we wanted to watch okay-ish entertainment we would hope to find that somewhere else other than in one of the most expensive sci-fi films ever made!!!!! Thank God that the Lord of the Rings is there to redeem our faith in high-concept large budget fantasy films. Revolutions is a bad stain on the Matrix series - if not trilogies as a whole. As a fan I have voiced my disapproval, it is little more than I can do, but what do they care laughing all the way to the bank???