5.0
0.9333333333333333
About midway through watching ROTK, I realized that I was witnessing a milestone in movie history -- a movie that like Birth of a Nation, Citizen Kane and Star Wars, will one day be looked back on as a turning point in cinema history.  Even those who don't like LOTR will acknowledge that it has suddenly changed what is possible on the silver screen.  For an amateur student of film such as myself, that alone made the movie worth watching.But even ignoring the place that LOTR will have in movie history, this is a stunning film, the crowning achievement to the biggest epic in movie history.  Many have asked which movie I like best.  But that's a question that's impossible to answer because this is all one glorious epic.  Of course, I loved ROTK best because it is the conclusion, the payoff, the finale.  We finally get those moment of triumph and tragedy and catharsis that Peter Jackson has been promising us ever since Cate Blanchett's luminous voice whispered in elvish on silver screens across the world in 2001.Adjectives fail me.  This is not just a simple action movie -- although it works wondorously on that level.  The Battle of the Pelennor fields is electrifying -- even for someone who's read the book a dozen times.  The lighting of the Beacons of Gondor may be my favorite scene in the movie.  But what makes this movie stand over the crowd is the emotional story -- the resolution of Arwen and Aragorn's tale (a scene near the very beginning might bring tears to your eyes), the incomparable bond between Sam and Frodo, the tragic heart-rending character arc of Gollum and the apocalyptic climax.  If you don't at least get choked up watching this movie, run, do not walk, to the nearest psychiatrist.The cast is, as always, superb.  We expect greatness from Sir Ian McKellan, but who would have though that Elijah Wood, Sean Astin and even Liv Tyler (!!) would bring such emotional resonance to the screen?  But the best performance -- one that will unfortunately never be rewarded by Hollywood -- is again Andy Serkis as Gollum.  We even get to see him without WETA's digital skin and his performance is no less amazing.  Peter Jackson's direction is sure -- bringing grandeour to the action scenes and intimacy to the character scenes.  And mention should be made of Howard Shore's operatic score -- that can soar in some scenes and mourn in others.  Amazing.There has been some compaint about the "multiple ending" of the movie.  But I liked this.  I liked that the movie showed there was a price to pay for what happened, that some wounds never heal.  I liked that it eased us out of the stunning climax and let us see that this was just one part of the ongoing tale.Well, I guess I've waxed rhapsodic enough.