1.0
0.75
Okay, Im not an easily offended person with a vendetta against this  movie but it stinks. Look, I like comedies even when they are offensive but Soul Plane is offensive without being funny. Its like some dateless jerk that that drinks heavily and believes everything he says in his drunken stupor is endlessly amusing. You know that type of guy. He thinks his boorishness makes him funny and not some gasbag that needs to shut it before he gets knocked out.The story details Nashawn(played by Kevin Hart)that sues an airplane company after an unfortunate accident kills his dog. He gets an idea from his cousin to open his own airline and he acts up on it. He hires and inexperienced pilot with a fear heights to fly the plane and hijinks ensue.I only chuckled one: the stupid scene where Sommore thought that Snoop was whacking off to her getting funnylinguis. Every other joke fails miserably because the screenwriters think that being offensive equates with humor. No. Offensive humor works when its well-timed. For instance in Borat, where Borat gets kicked out of a hotel for walking with his pants sagging while speaking urban slang was hilarious as it was offensive. Snoop telling Godfrey to turn off that African mumbo-jumbo is offensive,ignorant and is also far from funny. The screenwriters of this rubbish have no comic talent because they believe that all it takes to be funny is to be boorish as possible. No, you have to time in it a situation or in the form a joke for it to work. This movie has a real mean streak and really glories in its unabashed crudeness. Dont support this mintrel show or you'll only encourage untalented hacks to continue to be all the hack they can be. As a matter of fact you reviewers that praise this movie are responsible for the onslaught of Seltzer and Freidberg so we have no one else to thank but you for the the undeserved success of the worst filmmakers to disgrace Hollywood. Thank you very much for nothing. If I could burn every copy of this turd I would.PS: will somebody PLEASE slap the hell out of Tom Arnold for being so desperate to stay relevant in Hollywood?