5.0
1.0
I love me some Kevin James and so I was actually really excited about this movie, despite the fact that it did look rather lame.  I loved what he did in `Hitch' and even though I feel that `I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry' was a ridiculous mess of a film, I found James to be the best part of it and actually funny in almost all of his scenes.  Couple that with the fact that I watch `King of Queen's every day and the fact that recently an Ammy buddy of mine (here's your shout out MKIA) gave this five stars (hehe, we really are twins) and you have a few good reasons why I made this a must see film for my weekend.I was far from let down.Yes, this is not a brilliant comedy.  It is a family gag film.  In line with my grading scale though, when taken in context, this is a brilliant comedy.  I mean, it does not set out there to be a smart and intelligent satire or anything like that.  It attempts to get a rise out of the entire family (from the wee-little ones to the scrupulous adults) with countless pratfalls and childish humor and it actually succeeds just about everywhere.  I can't think of a segment that didn't work.I was laughing consistently.The film centers around Paul Blart, a security guard who is very unlucky in just about everything.  His wife left him and their daughter after she became a US citizen; he's been stuck doing the same thing for ten years despite repeatedly trying to advance to something better; he's consistently poked fun at while at work by everyone from co-workers to mall shoppers.Paul Blart is, for lack of a better word, a loser.After setting up the film by giving us the lowdown on Paul, his home life, his work relationships and his newfound crush on fellow mall worker Amy (that segue scene is hilarious) we are thrown into a `Die Hard' spoof when the mall is overtaken by superhuman thieves on Black Friday.  With certain mall employees taken hostage and the rest of the mall evacuated, Paul finds himself the only hope of saving his mall.What is so great about `Paul Blart: Mall Cop' is the casting of Kevin James in the lead.  He has such sublime physical comedy that is matched by his ability to make his every word (even his manner of speech) genuinely funny.  I think that is why I loved his pairing with Will Smith on `Hitch' so much.  They have very similar comedic styles; they both used every inch of their bodies to sell a character.  I've always loved the way Will Smith can contort his face to get a rise, and James does that to.  We so often mention dramatic actors and performances as telling a story with their eyes, of truly sinking into a feeling and emotion and just ravishing us with their stare; but the same can be said for a truly rewarding comedic performance as well.  Kevin James can crack a smile on anyone with just the expression on his face.The rest of the cast is serviceable, but they really don't matter much when you consider the fact that this film rests firmly on Kevin's shoulders.I definitely suggest this film for anyone who just wants to watch something funny, charming and entertaining.  `Paul Blart: Mall Cop' feels fresh and exciting and completely rewarding, which is not something that can easily be said for a film in this genre.  It's certainly not the best film of the year, or any other year for that matter; but for a somewhat mindless family fun escape from reality it does it's job and then some.  Maybe 5 stars is a bit much, but I can't think of a single negative thing to say and this movie.