5.0
0.9333333333333333
I approached this extended edition of Return of the King with more enthusiasm than the other two extended editions because of the information that 50 minutes were added to the film!  This was more than a fan of the books and films could have hoped for.  There is so much added in the extra footage that sets the mood for the film much more concretely right from the get go, that I was completely enthralled all over again like I was when I saw the film in theaters.  I think that there is no one who will dislike the additions; they are extremely well incorporated into the flow of the film.  What follows is a review of the extended cut of Return of the King (the first two dvd's).  I have not watched the appendices but am sure they are phenomenal as well.Now for some spoilers.  Smeagol and Deagols sequence is a bit longer and more intense, The Saruman sequence is worth seeing, because we did not really get closure to his storyline in the theatrical cut...  It is good to see Christopher Lee as Saruman and Brad Douriff as Grima Wormtongue one more time... It makes sense that Lee was upset that his part in the third film was cut for the theaters, it is a great final scene for the character, and is integrated here.We get extra details about the decline of Gondor, well worth it..  We also get more Palantir scenes (one extended with Pippin, and a brand new sequence with Aragorn).  There is a scene with the Witch King and Gandalf that just blew me away, as well as The Mouth of Sauron at the gates of Mordor, a tense moment in the books, and here reinserted for fans...  There is an extra scene with the Dead army.  In addition, there is some extra development of the romance that Faramir and Eowyn will share (like the books) which was only shown in one scene in theaters at the end when the two appear together in frame. We even get a very small Boromir cameo!!!The extended sequences are integrated so well it is hard to see when the theatrical version ends and the extra footage begins.  But that is besides the point, this is a reworked version, and includes the theatrical version and 50 minutes of new footage for a total running time of over four hours! Even new music has been integrated!!!  Now we all can go and watch the three extended cuts as one long film and enjoy the experience all over again... Peter Jackson has outdone himself again. Frodo Lives!