-----------------
ORIGINAL
-----------------

What else can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said? It reminds me of the comedies that Buster Keaton did and what he might have done with the technology we have now--very little dialog during the first half but full of character and emotion. Wall-E is the last of his kind; a robot designed to clean up an Earth that we have ruined. The rest of humanity has taken to the stars until Earth is cleaned up. 700 years later, Wall-E is still at it (which gives you an idea about how bad it was)when EVE arrives--another robot unit designed to find evidence of life and return it to the Axiom the ship housing our overweight, consumer obsessed descendants.The extras on the one disc version are quite good (I wouldn't spring for the three disc and as much abuse as this disc will get in my home I wouldn't spring for the pricy Blu-ray either)including "Presto" a delightful short that echoes the best Bugs Bunny/Elmer Fudd cartoons that Warner produced involving a rabbit, a magician and an act that has gone awry. "Burn-E" focuses on one of the service robots that we see in the movie. It's quite clever if less inspired.Other special features include deleted scenes, a "sneak peak" of "Wall-E's Tour of the Universe", a featurette on the sound design by Ben Burtt (who also did Wall-E's voice and created all of those wonderful sound effects for R2D2) as well as a commentary track by Director Andrew Stanton that is quite informative covering everything from the conception/changes to characters and storylines that they chose not to pursue.The 3 disc set evidently has a full documentary on Pixar and its history made by Leslie Iwerks the goddaughter of the great Disney animation pioneer Ub Iwerks.The DVD transfer looks wonderful.The packaging sucks. I understand that it IS important to send a message with eco-friendly packaging but the packaging on this looks like it was designed by someone who failed design school. THe disc will float around inside, get scratched (ours already was by the way)when it could just as easily been kept the same IF a small piece of plastic had been put (or even an adhesive spindle for the DVD)inside the packaging. It's a mixed message--a good movie with horrible packaging that will make sure that the disc is damaged with repeated use. It's a good thing I didn't spring for the more expensive set.Four stars for the movie, 1 star for the packaging. I'd suggest renting it if you want to see it once and then if you decide to buy it you might as well purchase one of those wasteful ecologically unsound DVD holders at a local retailer to store it in (the other option is a DVD plastic envelope).

-----------------
ANNOTATED
-----------------
What else can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said?
It reminds me of the comedies that Buster Keaton did and what he might have done with the technology we have now--very little dialog during the first half but full of character and emotion. 
Wall-E is the last of his kind; a robot designed to clean up an Earth that we have ruined. 
The rest of humanity has taken to the stars until Earth is cleaned up. 
700 years later, Wall-E is still at it (which gives you an idea about how bad it was)when EVE arrives--another robot unit designed to find evidence of life and return it to the Axiom the ship housing our overweight, consumer obsessed descendants.
> IGNORED all of the above

The extras on the one disc version are quite good (I wouldn't spring for the three disc and as much abuse as this disc will get in my home I wouldn't spring for the pricy Blu-ray either)including "Presto" a delightful short that echoes the best Bugs Bunny/Elmer Fudd cartoons that Warner produced involving a rabbit, a magician and an act that has gone awry. 
>> IGNORED

"Burn-E" focuses on one of the service robots that we see in the movie. It's quite clever if less inspired. 
>> IGNORED (not about the movie itself)

Other special features include deleted scenes, a "sneak peak" of "Wall-E's Tour of the Universe", a featurette on the sound design by Ben Burtt (who also did Wall-E's voice and created all of those wonderful sound effects for R2D2) as well as a commentary track by Director Andrew Stanton that is quite informative covering everything from the conception/changes to characters and storylines that they chose not to pursue. The 3 disc set evidently has a full documentary on Pixar and its history made by Leslie Iwerks the goddaughter of the great Disney animation pioneer Ub Iwerks.The DVD transfer looks wonderful.The packaging sucks. I understand that it IS important to send a message with eco-friendly packaging but the packaging on this looks like it was designed by someone who failed design school.  THe disc will float around inside, get scratched (ours already was by the way)when it could just as easily been kept the same IF a small piece of plastic had been put (or even an adhesive spindle for the DVD)inside the packaging.  
>> IGNORED (not about the movie itself)

It's a mixed message--a good movie with horrible packaging that will make sure that the disc is damaged with repeated use. 
Good movie
>> movie: +1

It's a good thing I didn't spring for the more expensive set.Four stars for the movie, 1 star for the packaging. 
4 stars for movie
>> movie :+1

I'd suggest renting it if you want to see it once and then if you decide to buy it you might as well purchase one of those wasteful ecologically unsound DVD holders at a local retailer to store it in (the other option is a DVD plastic envelope).
>> IGNORED