-----------------
ORIGINAL
-----------------

I want to start by saying i'm a HUGE pixar fan. I was there when they began and i grew up with their films, seeing every one of them in theaters and owning more than a normal amount of their merchandise. I was excited to see andrew stanton's sophmore directorial work at pixar and i was not dissapointed. this film is literally a masterpiece, you forget you're watching an animated family film after a while. it's dark, honest, and so absolutely beautiful, your jaw will be dropped and you will laugh alot. this film is funny and smart and is steering pixar in a whole new direction, now with that being said, i immediatley anticipated the dvd release of the film. after some lousy dvd releases for the last couple years (the incredibles being their last release to recieve a special edition), it was time for them to finaly go back to their hefty special edition packages, and once again i was not dissapointed. Literally up to the very day this dvd came out, i still was not sure what exactly i was getting. all the different versions and what not, it was hard to distinguish what came on what. so i finally cracked it open to see for myself and i was very pleased.for a standard dvd, the picture, sound and film itself is like i said, incredible. so, considering i already went off about the film itself i'll just say i give it10/10now for all of you who are still confused exactly what these features include on the 3 disc standard release, i;m going to tell you once and for all.first off, the packaging is way different from pixar's past releases. no slip case, no plastic case, none of that. instead, going along with the film's moral, the dvd comes in an eco friendly cardboard type case. for the 3 disc relase you pull open one side which reveals the first disc and the list of scenes and bonus features, you pull open the other side and that reveals the 2nd and 3rd disc along with a list of features. the case idea is kind of cool but can be frustrating to remove the discs and what not.now for the actual content....i didn't have a chance to actually explore everything but i gota good idea of it all and the length and layout for everything. the first disc has the feature film, the short film, "presto" and the new to dvd short, burn-e(which is pretty funny but has alot of filler moments with actual clips from the movie to develop the story). there is also a featurette that talks with ben burt, the man behind the voice of wall-e. and wall-e's tour of the universe. there is also 2 deleted scenes that total in at around 10 minutes. the second disc has two pathways, kind of like the monsters inc dvd...."humans" and "robots"  humans section is more adult oriented and includes all the insight and goodies....the robots section is more for the kids and includes the animated storybook, and a couple other minescule features. the humans section is where it's all at. for the longest time it said there would be "making of" featurettes and i thought, "what making of featurettes, it doesn't say" wellthere are a handful of featurettes about different aspects of the film and the total time for all these is almost an hour long!  the bnl shorts consist of 5, 2 minute long "instructional" films. another big feature is the full legnth documentary entitled 'the pixar sory" (86 minutes long)this disc also includes 2 more deleted scenes that are a total of about 14 minutes long.It'salways great to see a digital copy of any of your favorite films. i'm kind of new to this whole digital copy thing and i only have 2 other films in digital copy form. i was excited to get this onto my ipod but noticed that, unlike the other movies i have, this isnt meant to fit to screen. to only truly fit everything in the movie on the secreen, you have to play it in widescreen which if you have a regular video ipod like me, is kind of straining for the eyes.Ok, so i rambled on about the dvd and other stuff for too long, but i have to say i'm glad to see pixar is really caring about the dvd again. i'm still bummed blu ray owners still get slightly more features on their version. i'll have to put that on my x-mas list :)

-----------------
ANNOTATED
-----------------
I want to start by saying i'm a HUGE pixar fan. 
I was there when they began and i grew up with their films, seeing every one of them in theaters and owning more than a normal amount of their merchandise. 
> IGNORED

I was excited to see andrew stanton's sophmore directorial work at pixar and i was not dissapointed. 
Andrew Stanton did not disappoint.
> director: +1

this film is literally a masterpiece, you forget you're watching an animated family film after a while.
Film is very good.
> movie: +2

it's dark, honest, and so absolutely beautiful, your jaw will be dropped and you will laugh alot. '
plot is dark, honest, very beautiful, funny, surprising.
> movie: +2
> visuals: +2
 
this film is funny and smart and is steering pixar in a whole new direction, now with that being said, i immediatley anticipated the dvd release of the film.
film is funny and smart.
>movie: +2

after some lousy dvd releases for the last couple years (the incredibles being their last release to recieve a special edition), it was time for them to finaly go back to their hefty special edition packages, and once again i was not dissapointed. Literally up to the very day this dvd came out, i still was not sure what exactly i was getting. all the different versions and what not, it was hard to distinguish what came on what. so i finally cracked it open to see for myself and i was very pleased.
> IGNORED

for a standard dvd, the picture, sound and film itself is like i said, incredible. 
> movie: +1
> sound: +1
> visuals: +1

so, considering i already went off about the film itself i'll just say i give it10/10
> movie: +5?

now for all of you who are still confused exactly what these features include on the 3 disc standard release, i;m going to tell you once and for all.first off, the packaging is way different from pixar's past releases. no slip case, no plastic case, none of that. instead, going along with the film's moral, the dvd comes in an eco friendly cardboard type case. for the 3 disc relase you pull open one side which reveals the first disc and the list of scenes and bonus features, you pull open the other side and that reveals the 2nd and 3rd disc along with a list of features. the case idea is kind of cool but can be frustrating to remove the discs and what not.now for the actual content....i didn't have a chance to actually explore everything but i gota good idea of it all and the length and layout for everything. the first disc has the feature film, the short film, "presto" and the new to dvd short, burn-e(which is pretty funny but has alot of filler moments with actual clips from the movie to develop the story). there is also a featurette that talks with ben burt, the man behind the voice of wall-e. and wall-e's tour of the universe. there is also 2 deleted scenes that total in at around 10 minutes. the second disc has two pathways, kind of like the monsters inc dvd...."humans" and "robots"  humans section is more adult oriented and includes all the insight and goodies....the robots section is more for the kids and includes the animated storybook, and a couple other minescule features. the humans section is where it's all at. for the longest time it said there would be "making of" featurettes and i thought, "what making of featurettes, it doesn't say" wellthere are a handful of featurettes about different aspects of the film and the total time for all these is almost an hour long!  the bnl shorts consist of 5, 2 minute long "instructional" films. another big feature is the full legnth documentary entitled 'the pixar sory" (86 minutes long)this disc also includes 2 more deleted scenes that are a total of about 14 minutes long.It'salways great to see a digital copy of any of your favorite films. i'm kind of new to this whole digital copy thing and i only have 2 other films in digital copy form. i was excited to get this onto my ipod but noticed that, unlike the other movies i have, this isnt meant to fit to screen. to only truly fit everything in the movie on the secreen, you have to play it in widescreen which if you have a regular video ipod like me, is kind of straining for the eyes.Ok, so i rambled on about the dvd and other stuff for too long, but i have to say i'm glad to see pixar is really caring about the dvd again. i'm still bummed blu ray owners still get slightly more features on their version. i'll have to put that on my x-mas list :)
> NOBODY CARES