5.0
1.0
I've been long awaiting the release of Skyrim, and now that it's here I'm utterly blown away. The improvements that Bethesda have more over Skyrim's predecessor,Oblivion are apparent instantly while watching the game's opening. Skyrim uses the same format as previous Morrowind games for its introduction. You're character is a prisoner who must escape their bonds and quickly gets wrapped up in the current political/mystical going on's of the time. I don't understand why the Morrowind writer's keep using the same story line, but it seems to be a pretty effective way to get the ball rolling.  After you escape, the world of Skyrim is your oyster. Once I was out in the open I was amazed at how improved the graphics and character models where. The models you use to create your character are more detailed and have been enhanced to allow for more customization. I chose to play as a Khajit(they make great rouges) and I was impressed at how I could even change the stripe patterns on his fur. The character models have improved by leaps and bound since Oblivion and no longer have the cartoonish quality they once had.  One thing that I'm still getting used to is the weapon and magic menus. The game allows you to equip a weapon in one hand and a magic spell in other which helps you be more effective in combat. The problem I'm having is that I find myself constantly going to the weapons menu to change from a sword to a bow and other weapons. Though I find it tricky to rifle through my equipment and constantly stopping in middle of combat is an annoyance, I'm going to give it more time to to get accustomed to and assume that the game has a bit of a learning curve. Skyrim also has a "finishing move" feature. When you're close enough to your foe and their health is low, you can do a cool impaling strike or decapitation. they're very fun to pull off.  The world of Skryim is a world in every sense of the word. Enormous mountains dot the terrain accompanied by roaring rivers and lush forest. I've only completed a few missions and raided a few dungeons but I feel Skyrim is much much larger than Oblivion and has more to offer. Your enemies also look more menacing and had amusing quips during combat. One thief said that I'd "make a nice rug" referring to my Khajit fur. I've seen a map of Skyrim showing the locations of all the dungeons and to say there's hours of game play to be had is an understatement.  In closing, do yourself a favor. Stray from the beaten path. Wonder out to the woods. Climb that intimidating mountain. If you only focus on the main story arch and rush though this game, you're doing yourself a disservice. The game is meant to be explored and will reward you for doing so. Venture forth.