9
0.5098039215686274
9/10: This game is definitely not a 10, but it is definitely not a 0 either (wtf, why must you people be like this?). Here is my honest review thus far! Skyrim is a major improvement over Oblivion. Magic and Archery got a much needed overhaul and the UI system looks much nicer. It is a great idea to be able to hotkey spells and weapons to favourites. The character animation is much improved over Oblivion, HOWEVERmelee combat still feels 'floaty' (e.g. when you cut into flesh, it doesn't 'feel' like that, it's like you're cutting at air). Furthermore there are a few bugs that kind of detract from immersion (my face disappeared, a few non-important quests bugged out and my horse is floating lolol). However, nothing of game breaking proportions. FURTHERMORE, stealing is REALLY bugged in that I can place a pot/cauldron/basket over someones head and steal ANYTHING from them. It was pretty funny to do it initially, but now it's kind of making moments where I'm asked to steal something that should be difficult quite easy! The graphics on PC are good, but not the greatest. There is quite a difference between my PC settings (maxed with minimum 60FPS) and my friend's Xbox version, however the difference isn't as marked as BF3 PC-BF3 Console. The game install size is TINY and it is amazing that Bethesda has managed to improve their engines compression rate. I have sunk so many hours into this game so far and have not even made a dent in the main story line. While you wont find high fidelity in very minute environmental details, you will find a breathtaking scenery when looking out towards a snowy mountain (oh and the weather effects are AWESOME!), or even looking out across a lake as the sun begins to set. Truly what Bethesda has created is amazing. Yet for me, the game could never be a 10, the amount of bugs, floaty combat and the decent graphics for modern PC's all detract from the score I gave it. I hope you have enjoyed reading my review. Please do not trust the words of straight out 10/10 or 0/10 reviews, the game does have some problems, but it is a VAST improvement over Oblivion in all aspects. If you must know: Yes you can be a werewolf, the Dark Brotherhood quests are awesome and you can keep performing infinite kill contracts after you finish its main story and a few other things I want to tell you but shouldn't (I don't want to spoil it)!!. If you have money to purchase 1 game this summer, AND you love sandbox RPGs, this is a great game. Also, the MASSIVE strategy guide makes for awesome toilet reading material haha, fans of the Morrowind guide book will NOT be disappointed. 9/10. Thanks guys, enjoy!