5.0
1.0
This game is outstanding.  It is beyond polished and you can tell the developers took their time to create a wonderful gaming experience.Singleplayer:The single player is well done.  It's not extremely long but if you play at a reasonable difficulty matching your skills it will be fulfilling.  In length it's no worse than most other first-person shooter games on the market.  The visuals are terrific and the frame rate stays locked at 60 frames per second no matter what is going on.  The levels are diverse and exciting to play through.  Most levels allow a bit of flexibility in your style of play and the routes you take.  If you find a particular course of action too difficult you can always try a different approach.  The enemy AI is quite good with enemies taking cover and using their various tools in their attempt to take you down.  Your team mates are equally intelligent taking cover in a similar way and manage to avoid feeling like nothing more than fodder.  The campaign is good enough that a few play-throughs are worth your time with lots of hidden enemy intel items to collect as well as a timed score mode.Multiplayer:This is the most fun I've had in a multiplayer game since Battlefield 1942.  The amount of unlockable items is immense.  Upping your rank won't take an inordinate amount of time as it does in other games.  A decent player will rank up every hour or so of gameplay.  The weapons are very balanced and there are none which seem "cheap".  You can be as successful with a starting weapon as you can be with a weapon you unlock down the road.  It is a game of skill rather than simply an exercise in seeing who has the highest total time investment.  Weapon perks are unlocked based on your usage of that weapon.  If you favor a particular firearm you will get the goodies associated with that weapon.  This helps avoid the feeling that you're accomplishing nothing when using your favorite weapon type.  There are a cavalcade of game modes to keep you busy and their are broken down in an meaningful way.  There's no need to fret over any of the game modes which can be selected in your desired play list since they are specific enough in their criteria to keep you interested.  Rooms are persistent so there's no need to constantly search for a game over and over again.  The maps are excellent and well laid out for fun play.  No map seems overly biased for either team.  There aren't any "filler" maps which make you groan when they pop up in the rotation.  The ability to shoot through various objects such as certain walls or crates adds a bit of flair to the excitement.  The graphics are just as strong in the multiplayer as it is in the campaign.The bottom line:Buy this game.  This is jammed packed with loads of content which will keep you coming back for more.  It's a nearly flawless execution of a modern game.  Don't avoid this game just because it seems like "more of the same".  It adds plenty of twists and turns make it a fresh experience; unlike any other you've experienced before.  I'm rather critical of games so my endorsement is not something I give out easily.  This game more than exceeds the hype.  Missing out on Call of Duty 4 would be a huge mistake.  Buy it!