5.0
0.8695652173913043
When Mario first stepped into the third dimension almost a decade ago he forever revolutionized gaming and spawned a legion of imitators and admirers.  At that time Nintendo set the standard for 3D camera and animation systems, analog controls, open ended worlds and a host of other novel trimmings.  Since then the likes of Sonic, Crash, Jak & Daxter, Banjo, Ratchet and Clank, Sly Cooper, Rayman and even Mario himself (in the form of fan-service Sunshine) have tried and failed to equal his stunning 3D debut.  With Super Mario Galaxy you get the same sense of wonder and magic that came with both Mario 64 and the 2D titles that preceded it - perhaps even more so...While the 'next-generation' of gaming has been upon us for over a year now few titles have exceeded the bigger-and-shinier-is-better variety.  Gears of War had gorgeous visuals and an original twist with its duck and cover gameplay.  Bioshock offered a unique premise, strong narrative and impressive setting.  Ratchet and Clank, Heavenly Sword and Lair all look quite nice but ultimately offer little novelty.  Moment to moment, pound for pound, Mario Galaxy is true next generation gaming.  You haven't played this game before.  While Nintendo could have easily released a retro happy mish-mash of a game with some waggle controls for good measure they've clearly upped the ante by releasing a gem of a game which not only pushes the boundaries of Mario experience but video games in general.The first thing you notice when hopping into Galaxy is the spherical world model.  Ratchet and Clank this is not.  If anything it bears more resemblance to the Little Prince and his planetoid adventures.  The developers have done some remarkable things with this idea.  If Mario 64 was about getting Mario into the third dimension then Galaxy is about warping your sense of space and challenging possibility within it.  Your perspective constantly shifts; at times you're "upside down" for extended periods only to realize that the ceiling has become the floor, the ocean has become the sky etc.  Gravity is often in flux and you'll be amazed at where you end up (and how you got there).  Each of the game's seemingly endless scenarios play out in imaginatively detailed worlds that burst with life.  Everything is so wonderfully paced that it constantly feels like the game is reinventing itself along the way.The Wii controls complement the action nicely and don't at all feel gimmicky or tacked on.  Using the Remote pointer for example to collect stars (in place of coins) is clever and intuitive.  The overall difficulty of the game has been reworked.  It's easier to die now - but 1up's are also more abundant.  Expert players can excel and novices will still have a good time.  On top of all this the music is incredible.  For the first time Nintendo has chosen to record a live orchestra.  If ever there were any doubt that Nintendo fashions itself as 21st century Disney look no further than the score.  Like pretty much everything else featured here, it's the stuff of magic.