5
0.4230769230769231
Skyrim is a game that looks absolutely great from the outside. The quality could be a lot better though. The game starts in a village and as I looked around, everyone was either a Nord or an Imperial. The character creation is incredibly simple, all you have to do is select a race. It's purely cosmetic anyway because any race can be an equally skilled mage/thief/warrior. The game starts quite promising with a dragon who attacks the village, but sadly this is the only instance in the entire game where a dragon actually destroys something. There's no character progression in the entire game so you can already imagine what the ending of the main quest will be. You're the dragonborn after all, whether you like it or not. Personally I'd rather have a main quest like in Fallout New Vegas, with the Stormcloaks and Imperials as the two major factions. Currently you're just the boring "chosen one" and there are no choices or different outcomes in the MQ. The MQ is also quite short, it took me only 10 hours to beat it. But hey, you don't buy TES just for the MQ. By far the best part of this game are the dungeons and the world. The world is, as we've come to expect from Bethesda, huge. It feels bigger than Cyrodiil because it has more mountains. There are more unique places and the cities look a whole lot better than the cities in TESIV:Oblivion. The dungeons are linear but brilliant. They all look unique, most dungeons have a story to them and they're full of surprises. I've had the most fun in this game by randomly exploring dungeons. Sadly the game suffers from many other problems. The user interface was made for the consoles and is absolutely terrible. You do get used to it but I think it's quite an achievement from Bethesda that I'd rather get Oblivion's UI back. The graphics are a major improvement but not up to today's standards. Many textures, especially rocks, are very outdated and would even look bad in TESIV:Oblivion. Games like The Witcher 2 and Two Worlds 2 look much better than Skyrim. The combat hasn't changed much since Oblivion. There's dual-wielding now (and dualcasting) and killing moves. The first-person killing moves are pretty cool, the 3rd person ones are annoying and can't be turned off. Melee combat is still simple hit&block where you're hitting air. If you're an archer, expect a lot of fights against a bandit with an arrow sticking out of his head. The dragons are a wasted potential. They look great but they're pathetically weak at lower levels. It shouldn't be possible to even kill a dragon at level 5-10 imo. They get better at level 20+ but they're still not that hard to kill, especially when they land so you can easily reach them. As I said, there's no destruction model in this game, so the dragons never feel as terrifying as they should. The guild quests and side quests are a mix of good and mediocre quests. Most are poorly written and almost all quests are simple fetch or kill quests. Don't expect any meaningful choices or different outcomes. The quests are mostly an excuse to explore the dungeons in this game and fight enemies. While the world itself is huge, it looks more like Oblivion than Morrowind. You won't find any big mushrooms here or other unique fantasy stuff. The Nordic theme is pretty good but there are so few elven/animal NPC's in this game that it's almost sad. I feel like I'm playing in the medieval era instead of a fantasy universe. Some people might like that but it's a big change from Morrowind. To sum it all up: Skyrim is a pretty good action game. If you liked Oblivion, you'll love this game. You can easily spent hundreds of hours playing this game. Just don't expect any good RPG elements, a memorable main quest, meaningful choices, well written quests, epic dragon encounters or a great combat system.