5.0
1.0
I will start off by saying that I am not a hardcore gamer.  I've only had the Xbox 360 for a month or two now.  I've played maybe 5 or 6 different games, including Halo 3, CoD 2 and 3, Bioshock, Gears of War, etc.CoD4 is by far the best out of anything I have played.  What everyone has said so far is absolutely true.  Graphics, sound, game play, they are all great.Many have said that it only takes 6 hours to get through the single player mode.  I am not that good, so it is taking me a lot longer than that.  And I am playing on the regular setting.  In the more difficult modes it will take me significantly longer to complete, but it will be well worth it.The game is incredibly absorbing, really pulling you into the action.  Certainly there has to be some linearity to the game, otherwise you'd never finish it, but along that linear path is a tremendous amount of variability in play that should keep your attention for a good while.The AI, both friend and foe, is very well done and keeps you on your toes.  I have never had a game make my heart race, or where I found myself holding my breath, like while shooting a sniper rifle, or just because of the intensity of the action.One complaint I have, and it's not really a complaint, but rather a preference, is that I think it would be much better if bodily injury caused the same consequences as in real life.  If I get shot by a sniper, or lit up by an AK, I should be dead.  Yes, that would make the game that much more difficult, but then I think it would make it that much more interesting too because you would really have to think through your strategy.  While I am playing I judge my success not only by completing a mission, but by keeping a mental note of how many times I got shot.  The fewer the better, obviously.I played online for the first time last night and the online play is infinitely better than CoD2 or 3.  If you think the single player mode is enveloping, online multi-player is a whole new world.  Intense.  Engaging.If you like FPS, then it would be impossible to go wrong with this game.