4.0
0.8571428571428571
I am unable to review this game without comparing it to The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, Game of the Year Edition. Skyrim practically borrows almost everything from Morrowind, from the music to the art direction and so on. It, however, ends up being an experience that tries to mimic such a thing, but through a more, limited scope in all areas.First and foremost, I'll mention what Skyrim does better than Oblivion. Skyrim has a varied environment. Dungeons actually have level design. Skyrim handles leveled loot and enemies better, while still keeping certain places inhospitable with higher level enemies. You are no longer just "some guy." Skyrim gives the illusion of having lore behind it. While all of this seemed like a deal breaker during first impressions over the game, it's not until you get into the meat that you discover that it just isn't good enough.Dungeons actually feel like levels, yes, but many of them lack any gravity to make them feel meaningful. There are so many interiors I remember from the original Morrowind. Weird looking caverns with statues and deadra warshippers lurking inside doing god knows what. Travel to a mine, find a slave colony mining inside, with little to no clothes on due to the enclosed humidity. A simple cave reveals a throne for only a giant to fit on. In skyrim, all dungeons usually carry some kind of theme and pattern. Draugr infested ruins, Bandit ridden caverns and mines, forsworn camps and forts, and *spoiler* Dwarven ruins, which turn out to be the most interesting of the bunch. This has to do with the fact that the entire setting is literally lifted right out of morrowind, if not just a little expanded.The pattern is rather simple. Fight weaker enemies and loot, fight a boss enemy or a series of stronger enemies carrying something nice, word wall and leveled loot chest, followed by exit. Occasionally, some dungeons will provide back story through the use of ghost sightings or other rare oddities, and notes and journals. These can also be broken up by puzzle sequences that involve you matching environmental switches and items according to a book or looking for the symbols on the wall. Also, nice looking views here and there. It all seems like a template for the dungeon design to follow, allowing no alteration (There are some good looking dungeons with good story, here and there, but very rare), and in that way it doesn't feel unique. I do compliment the addition of literature to read containing info about the area, but it has more to do with the looks than anything. That is, compelling art design, which skyrim doesn't go out of it's way to aspire to.These problems leak out into the overall gameworld that is Skyrim. It follows an extremely archetypical layout and theme, along with the way game is period. Only about one city looks breathtaking, while most of the others feel very generic. The game world looks very pretty but it only mostly consists of arctic iceland and forest, with patches of water/land and giant waterfalls. The land is littered with the usual passive earthly critters and deadly predators, and the occasional band of whoever.The problem with >>All of this<< is that it feels strictly realistic. It feels nothing like a fictional fantastical land. There isn't anything like the giant mushrooms, silt striders and scribs in morrowind. There are no giant floating shell creatures. You will very rarely see deadra. Instead you get the most typical enemies available, and I don't think I'll have to name them. The game really lacks creativity in these departments.The overall map complexity of Skyrim isn't exactly what I was hoping for, as it only includes snowland to the forest scene. That's it. Morrowind had that (with in the inclusion with an expansion, which skyrim also borrows a lot off of as well) and more. Whats better, is there was even interesting backstory behind it all. What sounds cooler: an Atlantis style city with a giant floating rock or just some average boring imperial city?The really serious problem behind Skyrim is the real lack of locations to explore compared to Morrowind. It is so easy to find a new location in that game because they're so close to each other, and this is without a compass mind you. Not only are they close, but they're in mass. Skyrim only has about 350, and not all of them dungeons. I couldn't possibly tell you how many locations I found in morrowind, but I can tell you that I spent more than two years with that game. I bought Skyrim at the beginning of this month. (Level 67, about 200 hours, I'll get back to this later) This would only sound like a quantity over quality thing to people who haven't played it. With skyrim, there are entire patches of land that have nothing to see or do. It just seems like they didn't squeeze as much as they could have out of this.A lot of places also involve quests to even enter them, and this leads to that subject. I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy the main quest, but it brought about some issues that I took with the questing overall. As in every Bethesda game, no main quest is ever straight because in order to continue, you need to seek out some other npc who then wants you to do something else. Many of these NPCs are straight up jerks or really bossy, which Bethesda loves to craft for some reason. In this manner the game is practically forcing you to side with people you don't even like in order to progress. I'm not exaggerating this either, it's either take orders or don't complete the quest, which can be problematic for people who prefer nonviolent means of getting things done. (Which was possible in every way in Bethesda's previous game Fallout 3: Game of The Year Edition (Xbox 360))Perhaps my next point would be a nitpick but I find the mechanic of invincible npcs (Not children) to be irritating to no end. What this is telling you is that you have to play the game in a very specific way, regardless of your allegiance. Morrowind allowed you to kill anyone, including main quest people and the game gods. (Vivec, for example.) This allowed greater freedom, especially for anyone who just wanted to ignore the entire main quest altogether. If you wanted to make an evil overlord character who harvested souls, you could do that. The most you would get is a message that tells you that you altered your destiny. Here, that isn't as possible. It's also a problem when you run into an aggressive, high level quest character on the street at a low level (Which I did).Really, when you get down to it, many of the inhabitants of skyrim will just seem petty or hostile for real no reason. The biggest example would be the new brand of the Imperial Legion, who have a strange obsession with execution. When not cutting heads off, they're hunting people they see as criminals with a passion to kill. There's also the everyday citizens and children who will talk all sorts of trash in your face, all the while seeming completely oblivious to your dragonscale armor and deathlord helmet, and 300 damage deadra sword. It gets even more bizarre after you complete the main quest and then you apply to join other guilds and groups who doubt your skills on arrival. Most of the quests involve fetching items or killing people, by the way.One would think that I find this game completely unenjoyable to play based on all my criticisms, to which I would say not true! For the actual gameplay, that is the very reason to play the game, is solid and varied and fun either way you slice it. It's not flawless, but it's DEFINITELY better than oblivion by a longshot. The game includes VATS like finishers and backstabs which are enjoyable to watch, especially when you get the ability to decapitate your adversaries. Outside of the combat includes the new ability to forge armor and weapons, along with alchemy and enchanting skill returning, allowing you to make a potentially godlike character, as is true to what these games usually involve.The leveling system is completely different this time around, thanks to a new "perk" system. Most would claim that you level your skills naturally and perks would help your efficiency in said skills, but it's the other way around. It would seem that perks are the only way to boost your skills, and gaining skill levels would just be a prerequisite to earning said perks. This means you could be level one hundred in sneak without any perks and still get spotted easily. This can easily cause worry for a player who may want to choose a different skill to expertise down the road, especially considering how long it takes to level at higher levels. Screwing around with just two points can be something you really regret later on in your development.So at the end of the day, I would say that I still enjoyed my time playing Skyrim. 200 hours worth, more to follow. Not the ultimate elder scrolls like I thought at first, but it's worth of the title... I guess.