4
0.75
BF4 hits a pretty strong note on the visual side of things(aside from a few awful renditions of what look to be flying fish and sail fish jumping out of water during the campaign). Environments looks great, the crazy level of achievable terrain destruction is very fun to discover. The BF4 campaign is, for the most part, pretty interesting. Nothing out of the box or mind blowing, but it keeps you interested none the less. Problems with game saving though has prevented many people(including myself) from completing the campaign. Personally, I have twice lost the game save(once at about 5 hours in and once at about 2-3) and have heard of others losing their spots up to 6 times. Needless to say this has discouraged me from any more attempts at completing the campaign, at least until a fix has been issued. The multiplayer is a different animal entirely. As an experienced gamer(and no stranger to the FPS platform) it still took me well over a week to start getting scores marginally better than 1-1 KD ratio. A lot of which had to do with server lag issues. To drive this point home, Ive managed to get kills that look as though I miss by a solid 3 or 4 feet. Dying suddenly to the person who's gun only goes off only once you're waiting to respawn, is a regular thing as well. Spawning has also become messier than it was in the previous instalment. Spawning(then dying) with an enemy laser sight or flashlight already blinding you isn't all that uncommon. I had an enemy spawn close enough to me that I did not have to move to get a knife kill. The stories could go on for days. Another thing that is pretty disappointing is that load-out changes or customizations have to be done in game. This means people who want to simply customize load outs must eat up open server spots to do so. Not to mention if you are 'inactive' to long, you get booted. Other things that should be available with the base game, such as capture the flag mode are not. This has either not been released yet or is only available to premium members at a cost of 49.99$. Either way this seems unacceptable to me as CTF is one of the more popular game modes and my personal favourite. The large 'conquest' sized maps also leave for a lot of 'all or nothing' type scenarios. You're either walking around trying to find people to shoot at for minutes at a time, or are surrounded by so many enemies that it's hard to get yourself established. All in all, it's an ok shooter that seems to have been a little rushed. Yes fixes and changes will happen but right now, most of the players I know are more likely to end up with their fist through a flat screen than a 'I love BF4' status on Facebook.