5.0
0.8333333333333334
You probably have already heard that Call of Duty 4 is a great looking game, and that it's the best first person shooter on the Xbox 360.  You've probably already heard this a million times, so I won't waste your time by writing a review about the graphics.  By now, you should already know that Call of Duty 4 looks amazing.  I do however, want to share with you a few of the great features that Call of Duty 4 has to offer.I'll start with CHARACTER CUSTOMIZATION for multiplier because this is my favorite feature for Call of Duty 4.  You can choose a preset class with default weapon load outs and perks assigned to them.  Those include Assault, Special Ops, Light Machine Gunner, Demolitions, and Sniper, or you can customize your character by using one of five "Create a class" slots, (which you can unlock fairly quick in multiplayer).  Create a Class is a nice feature because you can build your very own soldier with weapons and perks.  Perks are like options to further your Call of Duty 4 character and there are three sets to choose from.  You can only choose one option per set though, (3 perks total) so you'll have to decide which perk will suit your soldier best.  Here's a complete list of perks.PERKS SET 1: C4 charges, Special Grenades, RPG-7, Claymores (mines), fragmentation grenades, Bandolier (extra ammo), Bomb Squad (detect enemy C4 and claymores).PERKS SET 2: Stopping Power (increased damage), Juggernaut (increased health), Sonic Boom (increased explosive damage), Sleight of Hand (faster reloading), Double tap (increased rate of fire), Overkill (two primary weapons, but no handgun), UAV Jammer, (undetectable on enemy UAV).PERKS SET 3: Extreme Conditioning, Steady Aim, Deep Impact (bullets penetrate more objects/thicker cover), Eavesdrop (ability to hear enemy chat when close), Last Stand (when damaged, players may make a "last stand" using their handgun), Martyrdom (drop a live grenade when killed), Iron Lungs (hold breath longer for sniper scope view), Dead Silence (less sound when moving).RANKING up is pretty easy which is great because it allows you to unlock some of the better weapons.  You can also unlock power-ups, such as silencers and sights by obtaining a specific amount of kills for each weapon you use.  Same goes for headshots, which will unlock new camouflage for your weapons.  Complete your quota for both kills and headshots and you'll receive a golden gun for that weapon class.  COD4 also uses a numbering system like Halo 3.  65 Experience Points (XP) is the highest ranking you can get.  Once you hit the 55 points mark, you will unlock Prestige mode, which allows you to trade in your rank and start over at level 1, (you can do this up to 10 times).  What's the point of this?  Prestige baby!  Your "prestige insignia" will change each time, letting other players know just how dangerous you really are.ONLINE PLAY is of course top notch.  There are many game modes to choose from:  Team Deathmatch, Free-for-All, Domination, Ground War, Sabotage, Headquarters, Search and Destroy, Team Objective, Team Tactical, Team Hardcore, Old School, Cage Match, and Oldcore.  Along with the great game modes to choose from, there are many new and different ways to engage the enemy.  For instance... Get 5 kills in a row and you can call in an airstrike, (similar to Battlefield 2 Modern Combat).  Get 7 kills in a row and you can call in a helicopter to fly over and unleash a barrage of bullets to the enemy from a side mounted chain gun.  This makes the game a lot of fun in the sense that you're not just fighting foot soldiers all the time.  It's fun to take down a helicopter now and then.THE CAMPAIGN is very well done.  COD4 does a nice job of making you feel as if you're really there.  A teammate will blow open a door by firing a shotgun at the door jams, another one kicks it in; you blast into the room firing short bursts at bad guys from your silenced MP5... You get the idea... It's just plain and simple Call of Duty fun!People will no doubt try to compare this game to Halo 3, Rainbow Six Vegas, Gears of war and maybe even Bioshock.  Thing is, is that the Call of Duty games have always been great games, so to try and compare it to any other game on the market really isn't necessary.  It's a different animal.  The Call of Duty series will continue to win awards and capture the eye of many if not all first person shooter fanatics.  It's one of those weird things, where you know if you go out and buy it... You'll love it.  It's as simple as that!Complete Weapons List, (For those of you who care):Assault - M16A4, AK-47, M4 Carbine, G3, G36C, M14, Mp44Sub Machine Guns - MP5, Skorpion, Mini-Uzi, AK-74u, P90Light Machine Guns - M249 SAW, RPD, M60E4Shotguns - W1200, M1014Sniper Rifles - M40A3, M21, Dragunov, R700, Barrett. 50calSide Arms - M9, USP .45, M1911 .45, Desert EagleSpecial Grenades - Flash Grenade, Stun Grenade, Smoke Grenade