1.0
0.7714285714285715
After owning and playing this game for one month, I am thoroughly convinced this game is a con job perpetrated to separate you from your hard-earned cash. In fact, I feel like I've been robbed. In summary, this game is a (very) expensive map pack - skip it, save yourself $70, and buy Black Ops or MW2 used. Both those games are great and still have plenty of players online. It will have been worth my significant time to compile this review if it helps just one person avoid getting swindled like I did.(Last updated 2012-Jan-28)---------For multiplayer this game is absolutely horrible. It will drive you insane. Every improvement that Treyarch added in Black Ops, got reverted out of MW3. In fact many things in MW3 are worse than the great MW2. The multiplayer is a complete disaster. There are more people in the MW2 and Black Ops multiplayer lobbies right now than the MW3 lobbies, and for good reason. MW3 Multiplayer is broken. Here's how:1. Lag compensation system is broken in MW3. It artificially "balances" (their term) the players by intentionally injecting delay into the game of the faster players. In other words if you have a faster internet connection it will purposely add "lag" to your connection so that everyone can be "balanced". Except, it doesn't work, especially if you are the "host". (MW3 does not have dedicated servers, it is peer-to-peer; one of the peers is the "host" who runs the game "server"). This problem means the killcams don't match reality - what you see on your screen may be 0.25 to 1.25 second behind what the other person is seeing. What this means is you get shot around corners, because people sometimes see you a full 1/2 second or more before you even see them. So in this case you could put a whole clip into an enemy and they may take no damage, but kill you with one bullet. This lag problem makes the game essentially unplayable. Youtube has numerous videos showing the horrible lag compensation system. You will know if you are affected by this defect if you find yourself incredulous when watching every killcam that doesn't match reality. They've attempted to fix this several times, and the netcode is still broken.2. Spawn system. The spawn system *intentionally* spawns you "near the action". In reality this means enemies are constantly spawning 10 feet behind you and shooting you in the back, or you are spawning directly into enemy fire. Sledgehammer and Infinity Ward have admitted they did this on purpose, to "speed up game play". In reality it results in the following process: Spawn, shoot enemy in back, get shot in back, die, respawn, repeat.3. Every improvement that Treyarch made in Black Ops has been removed from the game. The following features are no longer available:- The Black Ops objective indicator (big color icon over bombs/flags) fades away when looking at an objective, to allow you to see what's behind the indicator. MW3 removes this fade out, so you can't see the enemies hiding behind the big icon on your screen.- MW3 removes the ability to adjust the music volume of the game. So you will often have a very loud musical piece playing at the precise moment when you would rather hear an approaching enemy or a bomb being planted. Black Ops had audio options for adjusting sound effect and game music volumes separately - MW3 these options are missing.- Ability to choose a "random" map in mupliplayer play list if gone. In MW3 you can only vote for one of the two options given - there is no random option anymore.- Multiplayer map grid - Black Ops had a superior Letter-Number map grid system so you could tell your teammates the bomb is down at C2 for instance. The map grid does not work as well in MW3.- Dive to prone - this is gone.- Scoreboards in Black Ops show Captures, Defends, Plants, and Defuses when playing objective mode games. MW3 is missing this feature and does not show any objective scoring in the scoreboard - it's kills, deaths, assists only.- Killstreak stacking - In Black Ops the killstreaks don't feed new streaks. In MW3, they do.- Kill Assist feature - In Black Ops if you get the first bullet on an enemy , you get the kill even if you don't finish them off, and whoever helps you gets an assist. MW3 removes this feature - whoever gets the last bullet on the enemy in MW3 gets the full points even if 19/20 bullets were yours.  You'd better get used to having all your kills "stolen" again in MW3.- Ability to view gamer stats (Combat Record) in the game. In Black Ops you could view other players stats in the game lobby, including K/D, weapons efficiency, heat maps, etc. In MW3 this is removed - you need to quit the game and either go look it up on your computer or in a standalone "Elite" app - that's just ridiculous.- Wager matches are gone in MW3.- COD money is gone. In Black Ops you earned COD money and could buy whatever weapons and attachments you wanted. In MW3 you have to unlock them all, level by level, weapon by weapon, attachment by attachment. Not only do you have to level the game to unlock the weapons, you have to level the weapon to unlock attachments. This in effect penalizes you for experimenting with different weapons.- Ziplines, Slides, Elevators, moving Doors, interactive equipment - Black Ops maps had these interactive features in the maps, but MW3 has none of them.- Black ops had customizable emblems on the player card, MW3 removes this feature. You can no longer customize your emblem.- Banking of killstreaks - In Black Ops you can bank your killstreaks, that is you can have more than one of the same killstreak (multiple UAVs for instance) stacked up. MW3 goes back to overwriting your previous killstreak if you don't use it up by the time you get it again.- There are probably dozens of other improvements that Black Ops made to the franchise that are now completely missing. I will add them later as I think of them.4. Spec Ops Survival Mode is the "zombies" replacement in MW3. But you can only play with 2 players - Black Ops let you play with 4. Survival gets real old, real fast. Whereas in Black Ops zombies you needed to use strategy, unlock things, do things in the correct order etc - in MW3 you shoot wave after wave of dumb incoming ai soldiers. It gets boring very quickly particulary because you cannot play with 4 friends and there is no strategy whatsoever involved.5. Maps are too small. There are no large maps in this game and only two medium size maps. No matter the map, it's filled with garbage and trash littering the landscape and millions of camping hidey holes. This means you don't have a clear shot on anything because there's always garbage in your way. Furthermore it's hard to even run anywhere because your player always gets stuck on little walls, rocks, crates, etc. There are only very narrow paths or hallways that you are funneled through. Luckily they follow the Call of Duty Building Code that requires every building to have 1 door and 2 windows per wall. But the small maps make the multiplayer extremely claustrophobic. They are patently horrible and absurd maps that result in non-stop player collisions. There is no place to call in a care package, no safe spot, in fact the only thing the sniper class is good for is quick scoping because there are no sight lines longer than probably 50 meters in any map. The default sniper zoom has even been reduced in the game to ACOG levels precisely because the maps are so small it would otherwise be worthless.6. Call of Duty Elite. This program which costs an extra subscription fee, still doesn't work. It did not work on release date and it is still not fully functional. Activision in their generosity has added 1 month to everyone's subscription - but still has no ETA for when the Elite app will be fully functional.7. Activision straight-up lied about this game. They promised the following:- no overpowered noob tubes (gun-mounted grenade launchers)- no quick scoping- no nukes- one new DLC per monthWell, they lied on all three counts. The first patch to the game dramatically increased the damage of the noob tubes to extraordinary levels (but regular grenades and semtex are still weak). Quick-scoping is also back in, and made even quicker than it was in MW2, and the snipers more powerful. No nukes? Get 25 kills without dying and you'll see about that - yep - you get a MOAB that wipes out the entire enemy team at once. What's more, the promised December DLC has still not shown up and rumours are that it's been "delayed". So that expensive CoD Elite subscription isn't really doing much for the money right now.