0
0.8461538461538461
This is why I love Metacritic. The "professional critic" vs community reviews shows up 'manufactured hype' 10/10 shill reviews for bad games like a flare at night. At time of writing, the "official" CoDG critics scores are 85/79/67. The community score is 1.6 (16%). When you have a gap that large, something is seriously wrong somewhere that no amount of hype or criticism downplaying will cover up. I believe the phrase "jumped the shark" is entirely appropriate here. Ghosts is sadly one "cash in on the CoD franchise" release too many. Actual review Almost everything is a step backwards. No FOV slider on PC's. Theatre mode removed. Old previously fixed bugs are now reintroduced (like mouse sensitivity jumping about all over the place if you're running FRAPS to record gameplay footage). I thought my Logitech G300 was dying. So did many others given many similar comments online elsewhere. Nope it's the game. The PC porting optimisation is appalling. The game runs even slower than BF4 with little noticeable increase in quality over previous CoD games. In some places, GFX look like 2007/2008-era games. It's like Dragon Age 2 vs DA:Origins all over again half the fps for *inferior* quality textures. The issue is not "people's hardware is too slow because its next-gen launch time" some games engines are just plain badly written. 6GB min RAM for this? You must be joking. I've seen amateur modders do far better with Oblivion. Voice acting is a step back, constant crashes, sound issues, server issues, poor AI, etc, are just icing on the cake. No point repeating them all as everyone else here is saying the same thing. Even without technical issues, the main issue for me is that it's lost its general "fun-ness". It's just plain boring. If you've played older CoD games, then you've pretty much seen it all before. Many times before. If these half-finished bug-ridden dumbed down rehash sequels are representative of next-gen games, then all I can conclude is that next-gen "so smart it's turned full circle and become retarded again"... At this rate, I'll be getting a lot more fun replaying modding older games in future, something a lot of people seem to be increasingly doing with bug-ridden glorified Beta releases booted out with little to no quality control, and an over-reliance on using "day one" gamers as unpaid patch testers due to marketing dept. release date p*ssing contests. Battlefield 4 was rushed out to compete with CoDG, and CoDG was rushed to compete with BF4. Both have masses of low-rated reviews for the same reason More bugs in each than the inside of an ant's nest. What in God's name is going on with gaming studio's these days? Not impressed at all either with the individual game, or "next-gen" releases in general so far.