5
0.0
This game is strictly mediocre. While it is okay for a while, it suffers from several large problems. The biggest problem is that, while it is a 3D platformer, it lacks exploration - the game is extremely linear, and most levels have to be completed in a single way. Worse, this game is inferior to previous titles in the series - Mario 64 had a lot of exploration in it, but this game lacks that exploration aspect. You can't randomly go for other stars, and the stars aren't clever in any way. The worlds are sadly less interesting than the Mario 64 equivalents. The much-vaunted planetary aspect SEEMS like it would be cool, but it almost always is actually a total letdown - almost all the planets with their gravity are lame, and only in a few places in the game can you actually do cool things with them, and I strongly suspect the team actually never intended for me to be able to do what is ACTUALLY fun with the gravity. The game is also extremely easy - many modern games are very easy, but this game is exceedingly so. Bafflingly, it still has a lives system, despite the fact that it is utterly irrelevant - you have effectively infinite lives, and yet they remain in the game for no good reason. Moreover, it is so easy you are never going to game over. The central staging area is also less enjoyable than what has been present in other games - in this game, the central staging area is like the levels, boring. In Mario 64, the castle was an interesting place to explore in its own right, being its own "level" of sorts with its own secrets, but the spaceship is just a boring place without interesting places to put its levels, and you progress through it in a very linear and not very interesting fashion. Perhaps the biggest letdown is the repetitive worlds - there is one world which shows up twice, and it was only okay the first time. The second time, it is simply tedious and uninteresting. Other sections of the game are a bit overly repetitive as well. While there are some fun areas in the game, most of it is just boring and not clever, and the game is actually worse than Mario 64, a game a decade older in the same series. This game is greatly overrated. I'd recommend against purchasing it.