5.0
0.875
Greetings!  Yes, this game is ridiculously great.  I'll put this review down in three short parts: (1) for those who are new to the Elder Scrolls; (2) for the veterans of Elder Scrolls / Fallout 3 / sandbox games; (3) general thoughts and comments about the game itself.Quick background: I was madly in love with Morrowind and Fallout 3; I wasn't too crazy about Oblivion for many reasons, which are irrelevant right now.  I loathe standard FPS games with linear storytelling and rinse-repeat trigger-twitching action.  I play old school dungeons and dragons (paper and pencils, yes) and Lord of the Rings is the greatest fantasy tale ever (along with the Belgariad).(1) For the unblooded: the open world of Skyrim can and will be daunting; you aren't given any clear-cut goals--or maybe you're given too many!  That deer in the headlights, "what do I do now?", sensation is perfectly normal.  Sit back and imagine yourself in an alternate reality; exactly, now you have it!  Figure out the controls and character management stuff (read the dang manual!) and the rest is completely up to your imagination!  Save your game often (every time you do something, basically) and experiment with anything you can think of; in no time flat, you'll realize this game is amazing.(2) For the grognards: assuming you've played Morrowind, Oblivion, and Fallout 3, then Skyrim will feel comfy.  It feels bigger and more inspiring thanks to the soaring mountains and the astounding soundtrack.  The action is fantastic and the new addition of trigger dual-wielding is a lot of fun--experiment with all the combinations (like smacking a foe with fire & ice spells simultaneously).Bethesda really simplified character creation and levelling, but they added in a robust Perk tree for every skill that presents a bewildering array of choices; I mean bewildering in that it's agonizing to choose which one to choose!  The Perks actually have a dramatic impact on the game though, so whatever direction you go is bound to be exciting.The interface is a lot cleaner and easier to access than any game before, including Fallout.  I'd say Skyrim is closer to Fallout in terms of how it feels when you're playing, but the world feels unique and interesting like it was in Morrowind; the best of both worlds, baby.  Dragons are fantasy at its best, and they feel appropriately tough.  The best encounters come when the dragon roars and swoops overhead, building up that anticipation; there are different types of them, so be wary if you beat one down easily because the next one might not be so cake.(3) General thoughts: I haven't had the game crash, not even once.  The load times off the HDD are less than 30 seconds and much shorter for small transitions like shops.  There are definitely some graphic hiccups and texture issues, but it's not constant nor bad enough to break the spell of immersion.  There is so much to do in this game that you could easily stay in one province of Skyrim and max out your level.Be careful with the difficulty setting, as some enemies are nearly indestructable on anything but normal, whereas the toughest enemies are sometimes far too easy when the difficulty is lowered.  You'll notice classic Elder Scroll follies, like a bandit kingpin beating you down faster than a pair of angry dragons--but that's present in almost every game that tries to keep it challenging.  It's better than Oblivion and much more like Fallout 3.The best character and most amazing thing about Skyrim is the world itself.  I've spent time simply gazing at the aurora lights or galactic clouds visible in the night sky; I've stood atop a lonely mountain in a snowstorm and just listened to the noise; I've stalked massive elk through sun-dappled pine forests; I've floated on an iceberg in the Sea of Ghosts, watching veils of fog swallow the land; I've walked with herds of mammoths across the tundra; I've delved into forgotten, undead-haunted halls where the slightest noise sends chills up your spine.Enjoy, my friends.