5.0
1.0
(Multiplayer Details and highlights)Exciting Top notch well balanced online play,lag is nonexistent .There's a Party System plus a ton of game modes like Deathmatch,Search & Destroy,Domination,one-on-one duel, a one-shot/one-kill hardcore mode,Heaquarters,Oldschool mode,etc.Also Matchmaking playlists, 16 multiplayer maps right out of the box,Four player split screen.Also your online player will get 'upgrade' perks like faster re-load,detect claymores through walls,asorb more damage,all this is gained through playing and gaining experience points which is a part of the fantastic  online leveling system in which everything you do while playing gains experience points that leads to new ranks. And once your promoted to new ranks you'll get added player bonuses like calling in air-strikes,temporary radar,new weapons and attachments,matchmaking playlists,and create-a-class. You MAX out at level 55 but your able to create-a-class at level 4 ,which includes,primary-secondary weapons-grenade type-etc,With 5 slots total to customize. You can tweak your custom class between rounds,according to your tastes for each map and gametype,things like radar jammer-steady aim-sleight of hand/juggernaut-quiet footsteps,etc.All In All Multiplayer is awesome ,COD4 is a must own if your a XboxLive FPS fan.Onto the single player portion ,wow what can I say its beautiful and each mission looks better than the last. There's the standard intense COD action that you'd expect as well as some new 'stealth' type missions (with newly introduced night vision)that makes the game all that much more immersive. The weather,lighting,and textures all look fantastic, and all at an impressive 60fps. The only negative (if there is even just one) is that the campaign is only 10 hours give or take depending on difficulty and how much you explore the levels. But that being said this game hits it on all levels ,fantastic gameplay,stunning graphics,excellent multiplayer,COD4 has all the right things a FPS fan needs and wants. There are some kool 'cheats' too after you collect the (30) laptops scattered throughout the campaign that have the usual cheats like infinite ammo and a wierd but funny cheat that when an enemy gets killed they explode into a pile of car tires..lol..and with the same cheat if you shoot down a chopper the sky rains Goodyears..lol. Also another perk, after beating the campaign 'Arcade' mode opens up , you now get scored on the camapaign based on performance like headshots-blowing up cars-string togeter kills,like mutiple headshots etc. You'll see a score meter that tracks your progress in 'Arcade' mode.What an awesome game the campaign alone really is worthy but its the multiplayer that seals the deal as COD4 is one of the best FPS to hit the consoles in a long time. Definitely 'do not miss' this stellar game.PEACE