7
0.5
Battlefield 4 is a powerful entry in the multiplayer FPS scene, and improves vastly upon its predecessor. It is somewhat hindered, however, by a alarmingly large number of problems with its online component. As seems to be the trend with most games in its competitive niche, Battlefield 4 adopts a single-player campaign largely for the purposes of marketing. It's short and provides some fairly impressive set pieces, but brings no advancements in narrative and fails to avoid invoking tropes in shooter campaigns that we've seen so many times. Of course, it's the online multiplayer of Battlefield 4 that comprises the bulk of the game. It's a robust offering, with extremely developed player progression and deep gunplay and vehicle mechanics that outperforms competing games such as Call of Duty in certain respects. While the "Levolution" feature admittedly loses its charm after you've destroyed the same skyscraper for the third or fourth time, and so on, it's a novel element and a sign that the franchise is indeed still innovating. Player and weapon customization has been greatly expanded upon from Battlefield 3, and a real mix of balanced attachments and guns now make the "best" combination for a kit unclear, encouraging diversity. There have been some controversial moves taken with the kits and their respective equipment, but none that have clearly unbalanced the game. The two new game modes, "Obliteration" and "Defuse," seem to be more competitively-focused, and are welcome additions overall, drawing from concepts that Battlefield fans have been asking for. Overall, Battlefield 4's gameplay is superb, and would have merited it a 9 or 10 rating from me were it not plagued by certain problems I'll discuss later. Regarding the PlayStation 4 in particular, the graphical quality of the game is amazing, and Battlefield 4 is easily among the best, if not the best, launch titles in terms of visual aesthetics. Yes, Battlefield 4 is beautiful, but only when it works. To be blunt, the servers are in terrible condition, and you will often find yourself disconnected mid-game. You may find yourself losing records of stats, kills, stored experience boosts, and so on, with frustrating regularity. Both server-side and client-side patches have been promised to fix these problems, and they can't come soon enough. Speaking candidly, Battlefield 4 is an unfinished product. One last qualm is with the new "Battlepack" system. EA seems to have placed this in the game as a way to introduce microtransactions into Battlefield 4 similar to Mass Effect 3's, but their purpose seems to have been confused. There's currently no way to purchase them, and yet they come in randomized packs with varying levels of rarity, like a collector's card pack would. The Battlepacks unlock at certain rank intervals, which would be an acceptable system were they not often made inaccessible by the unreliability of the servers. That's the prevailing issue with Battlefield 4; it's a wonderful game, but only when you're able to play it.