2.0
0.7397260273972602
This is the first game in a while I've regretted purchasing.The single player is decent and functional. Not as memorable, over-the-top, or fun as MW2, and the story didn't feel like it was driving towards anything. But as we know, the multiplayer is what makes or breaks a CoD game, and unfortunately, it's pretty bad compared to MW2.The maps are bland, boring and repetitive. They all pretty much have the same convoluted layout, and the same basic "ruined city" theme. And they are sprawling to the point where it's tough to even get sense of where I should go. I feel like whenever I die, I'm getting shot in the back, and that I'm moving around less because there are simply too many directions to get shot from, and the game has a bad habit of spawning your enemies behind you. And they all suffer from the same problem: too cramped for sniping/long range combat, and yet also somehow too open for short range weapons.The weapons themselves are also not very good, with problems ranging from minor things like terrible sound effects to huge problems like every single gun doing way too much damage, to the point where every battle is a case of "whoever shoots first wins", something completely different from MW2's system. The weapon leveling system itself is way too involved and penalizes you for experimentation with other guns, as it requires an absurd amount of kills to unlock every feature for a gun (way more than MW2). And whereas shotguns were pretty awesome in MW2, they are comically bad in MW3. Overall, the combat just doesn't feel as fluid or smooth, and I find it hard to get any sort of rhythm going.The equipment, perks, and new killstreak reward system are all fine, but nothing that can make up for the aforementioned issues.Most of Infinity Ward's development staff quit after compensation disputes revolving around the absurd amount of money MW2 made. And this game is proof of how much difference a talented development team can make, even when the source code of a great game is handed to you on a silver platter.(Note: as a frame of reference, I had a total KD ratio of about 3 to 1 in MW2, and several weeks worth of in-game time played, so don't take this as a "noob rant" or a Battlefield fangirl trying to belittle the competition. I'm just a dedicated CoD fan who is sad that a game I was so looking forward to has so completely failed to live up to its namesake.)