3.0
0.8
DRM (Digital Rights Management) is used to combat piracy. A lot of companies opt for this but do it in a way in which someone can still play part of the game online. Here with this game, you have to have an interweb connection regardless. They put a patch out to try and fix this although the bottom line is you can't simply flip your laptop on and start playing it while you're in flight or where you can't connect to the interweb.Story line:The story line is alright I suppose, it has a lot of realism to it which is nice. Not to point out the obvious but this is set in 2070 aka the future. It's not set so far in the future where it's unbelievable which is one reason why I don't mind the game.Play length & Difficulty:I'd say it took me about as long as it took to get through the last Anno which if you are good at these games is about 14 hours w/o rushing. I've seen other people have double that time or even less. It should take about a month for a casual player.The difficulty levels allow a newbie of strategy games to play this game without feeling the urge to give up while giving people who've played this sort of games for the past decade (like me) a chance to have a nice challenge on more difficult modes.Graphics:I'm a graphics snob so I can't say I was blown out of the water like some people have said in regards to.. the water. The water is nice but everything is in-line with other games similar to it. The system requirements for this game are low so if you have an old laptop or pc, you should be fine. Of course compare your system to the actual system requirements before buying!Final Thought:There are other strategy games I much more prefer in the same price range that are also newer games. It's a good game if you've already played all of the other - more popular games. There are 4 core games that I play in the same genre, I put this at #5 which isn't bad. The DRM will ruin it for some because it's very annoying for those who actually pay for their games and are not pirating them plus use a VPN or added features to their internet services that might block the game. The learning curve isn't that big due to the good tutorials. I would have liked to have strategy game that was completely different from all the others which the developers claim they did (they didn't). Good but not great.PS I bought this game from another website, I just prefer putting my reviews here :)