2
0.5714285714285714
If I was to review this game on the game itself I would probably give it an 8 or a 9 but to be completely honest I can not in good faith give such a review. Battlefield 4 is great and looks very pretty...when it works. EA/DICE (mostly EA) has yet again dropped the ball on another triple A title. When the game works the visuals are fantastic, the 1080p looks amazing and the sounds are equally amazing. I've had the chance to play some domination online and as expected the experience was great but what Battlefield fans are looking for is the signature modes of rush and conquest, I was able to join a couple of games in these modes but was promptly disconnected from EA with in minutes of starting the match, this then sometimes generates an error that forces you to close the application all together and in turn corrupting your save file. DICE is not without its faults as well, they have gone above and beyond to promote the fact that BF4 is all about teamwork and going lone wolf would be difficult to do. For some reason though DICE has neglected to add a party system on Battlefield 4 like there was on Battlefield 3 where you can get a bunch of your friends together and then create squads and join servers together. No where on BF4 is there a place to do this, instead you have to join on one friend who is on a server and hope that there is enough room for you to at least get in the game never mind being on the same team as him. If you're looking to buy this game I would say to wait for now. DICE I'm sure is working on the issues that is plaguing this game not only for PS4 but PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 as well (I'm sure Xbox one will have its issues but that has not been released during the writing of this review). Hold on to your hard earned money until you know for sure that the game has been fixed to at least be playable, I know there's always going to be minor issues that have to be fixed in the background but as of right now this game, in my opinion is broken. Once BF4 is fixed then I will write another review and I'm sure the score will be a lot higher. In my eyes though the game will never be a 10 because of all the issues caused by poor quality control.