4.0
0.8461538461538461
As many other have said, this game has amazing graphics, countless hours of content, thousands of items to discover, and can be played according to your personal taste. These are all true and it may be the best action RPG of the generation.That being said, casual gamers (how I would describe my level of commitment)who only use their XBOX to kill a couple hours here and there might find this game tiresome. You may very well hate it. Skyrim follows the standard RPG formula, where you start of with a character destined to be a hero, who has the hit points and combat ability of an infant. Basically, a lamb at a wolf convention. You then grind away for hours, killing whatever you meet because every organism in an RPG world hates you, complete a few quest, and are rewarded by reaching the point where you can kill a dragon by flexing your bicep. This makes for a long game and allows you to make many decisions that result in your super character being a reflection of how you like play. However, if you can only commit a few hours here and there, it could take you months to get out of weakling levels. Games like this are far more enjoyable when you can readily dispatch most of the standard NPC enemies and that point can be a long time coming.Skyrim makes this process a bit more difficult than most games, because in an effort to create a truly open world environment, enemies are not grouped by difficulty. You can find bandits that are appropriate foes for a low level player near hard dungeons and giants that can kill you in one hit right next to your first quest. Even if you follow the story quest path in the game, you will find enemies that are well above your skill level, so what is supposed to be a journey of improving your character become a game of "find the exploit", in which you look for ways to kill them that take advantage of oversights in AI programming.On the rest of the review, the game loses a star for me for two reasons.1. Being Completely Unoriginal: This is your standard issue, cookie cutter, RPG setting taken from the pages of Tolkien and the works of European mythology that inspired him. The whole gang is here including elves, dwarves, vikings, dragons, anthropomorphic cat people, giants, mammoths, wolves, werewolves, giants rats (really, we have reached the point where Dragon Age Origins made an in game joke about giant rats being in every RPG and they still the stupid things in Skyrim), skeletons, vampires, etc. The story is decently written, but you could switch it out for the The Hobbit and the only thing that would change would be your characters feet getting hairier. Granted this is the Elder Scrolls series, but there has to be a way to mix it up by game five.To put in perspective how standard this story is, it reminded me a lot of Aidyn Chronicles: The First Mage, a 2001 game for N64. Ten years later, only the graphics have changed.2. Long loading times: Almost every door you walk through includes a loading screen. That may not seem like much, but then you try to explore and town and spend half your game time waiting every time you want to enter a shack.In conclusion, an awesome game full of standard content that needs to be approached with the same mindset as personally remodeling your house. Be sure you level of commitment matches the project before opening your wallet.