5.0
0.7777777777777778
Background: I have played through the original Morrowind on the Xbox at least once, and Oblivion on the Xbox 360 (including all DLC) at least 5 times.This review is based on 31 hours of play (level 15, playing as a Khajiit) without having the game installed, I am playing straight off the disc because there are reports of a bug in the way the game reads textures off the hard disk. Load times are no worse than in Oblivion, and in most load screens you are shown a random 3D model you can turn around and explore instead of just staring at the screen. This is very smart of the designers, since it allows you stay busy during the load screens. I have yet to experience a single freeze.The game itself is spectacular. It is as if they took almost every single complaint about Oblivion and tried to address it. The graphics are of course better, the game world makes Oblivion look like a cartoon. Interiors are still semi-generic, but so far I am yet to see much duplication in the outdoor areas. The map screen is now a 3D rendering, so you have a way of trying to figure out how to climb the taller mountains.The other menus have been redesigned, the journal is now separated from the map, items, skills and magic screens. The journal now allows multiple quest markers on the map at the same time, and all of the miscellaneous quests are grouped together. Quests just fall on your lap, pretty much everyone you run into either gives you something to do, or knows somebody that needs/wants something done. On top of that, there are plenty of menial jobs to do, like chopping wood, milling wheat, picking up produce, etc.The inventory is still broken down by item type and it makes it easier to figure out if you have a better item that should be equipped. This is the same screen used during trading. In Oblivion you had to switch between your inventory and the trader's, in Skyrim the trader's items are listed on top, yours listed on the bottom, also there is NO confirmation like in Oblivion. If you click it, you buy it.Skills are streamlined from Oblivion, but most of them mean the same thing. As you level up, you get skill perks that you can spend on any of your skills across a tree shaped like a constellation. Moving up the skill tree is controlled by minimum skill levels for the skill, so for example, you may not be able to pick the perk to smith magic items unless your armorer skill is at least 60. Also, when you level up your only get to pick between magicka, health or stamina to bump up.The powers and spells from Oblivion still work more or less the same way, but now there's a new kind of magic ability called a shout, which is just that. You scream and things happen. I cannot tell you more without spoiling the main plot of the game.Things that are different:Lock picking SUCKS unless you played a lot of Fallout 3 and/or New Vegas and you already got the hang of it. It would had been nice if the game designers allowed a bit more tactile feedback during this.Archery: You can now sheath a drawn arrow, just hit the X button.Crafting: this is addictive, there is all sorts of things you can build. You can even mine your own raw materials, smelt them into pure or alloy ingots, make the basic item then upgrade it. You can also upgrade your items once your smithing skill is high enough.Enchanting: you now have to destroy an enchanted item in order to learn its power, then you are allowed to use this effect in new items. The enchantment altars are in public areas and are ready to be used. In Oblivion I only remember the ones at the Frostcrag Spire, and you had to upgrade them before you could use them. I imagine there were more at the university, but I never tried to find or use them.Alchemy: there are alchemy benches scattered through the world. You mix and match to learn how ingredients work, then as you discover effects, or buy/find recipes, you can simply craft whatever you want.Trading: Maybe this is going to change once I reach a higher level, but so far some vendors only want to trade certain items, which is annoying when you are trying to get rid of loot. There is no longer a mercantile skill, you now rely on your speech for commercial transactions.Training: The hard cap of 5 paid training sessions per level still exists. It works the same way: go to a trainer, pay and you get trained on the spot up to five times. You can still grind your skills the old way, or you can find skill books, but it is so soon in the life of the game that you will have to find these on your own, the unofficial wiki is barely taking form right now. If you want to get an idea on what it will look once people learn the game, check out [...]Dragons: They aren't a big deal, they are just annoying to fight, and their loot is heavy. Also, every time I have had a quest to kill a dragon at location X, I ran into a different one right before. There's lots of complains online about people having to fight two at a time.Sidekicks: You can now hire a sidekick, or you will get one as a reward for certain quests.Factions: some of the factions from Oblivion are present, and there are some designed to force you to take sides in the main plot.Navigation: the map now marks areas as cleared, which is really nice.After 31 hours playing, I am at level 15, have a nice set of dwemer armor I crafted myself, and my character is literally living from paycheck to paycheck. According to the journal, I have completed 9 quests (5 of these are part of the "main" storyline) and 38 miscellaneous quests. I have 18 miscellaneous quests open, and 10 major quests open. This is without even trying to find any work, it seems like you can't talk to anyone without finding work.A funny thing is that the "grind" factor is almost non-existent. Even when you are just trying to make money because you want to do X, it is still amusing. Last night I caught myself spending over an hour just building and improving armor, only to sell it then to spend on more raw materials, go back, start the cycle again. It is just fun.Overall I don't see any negatives. I am using a slimline Xbox 360, been running the game for 31 hours spread over 3 days and except for slow loading screens it runs fine. It is entertaining as hell, it is better than Oblivion and except for the lock picking, every single thing I have found seems to be an improvement over Oblivion.