5.0
0.8421052631578947
Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games you have to buy simply because you own a Wii, because having any Nintendo console (home or handheld) and not owning part of the main Super Mario series is pretty darn near to self-deprivation.  So, with reading a shockingly minimal amount of the hype surrounding this game, I pre-ordered and purchased it.  I brought it home, and after a brief system update, I was utterly blown away by this incredible creation Nintendo made.Super Mario Galaxy is, without a doubt, the greatest game on the Wii, the greatest in the Mario series, and quite possibly the best action platformer ever made.  Everything from the graphics to the mostly orchestrated music to the actual gameplay itself is virtually perfect.The 3D Mario games began with Super Mario 64 and continued with Super Mario Sunshine.  However, those two games featured busy levels with several missions each...all within the same area (finding stars to move on to new worlds).  While that provided incentive to keep playing each level over and over again, it got redundant because nothing was different.  It was more like playing an RPG sometimes.  What I love about Galaxy is that each level (or galaxy) has three separate and distinct levels, so you're not doing the same thing again and again.  Because of this, the game doesn't drag or get tedious...it just keeps getting better.  And with 40 vastly different galaxies and a possibility of finding 120 stars, this is more like a 3D Super Mario World, complete with new power-ups and suits for Mario to use.The graphics...oh my goodness the graphics!  I had already succumbed to the thought that the Wii will never measure up graphically with the other next-gen systems.  But with Metroid Prime 3, and now this game, it's clear that we're starting to see what this console is capable of!  The textures are flawless, the water effects are incredible, and there is no slowdown, flicker or drag at all.  Moreover, the galaxies are detailed and colorful, making this the prettiest game you'll ever see!  The music is the best of the series.  Most of it is fully orchestrated, and it's nice to hear familiar tunes sound so much bigger and expansive.  The controls are fun, though not as focused on motion sensing as other games.  However, this is not needed in this game, and I'm glad that eloquent control schemes aren't forced on us simply for the sake of showing off (see Lair for PS3!).  But the parts that do take advantage of the Wii remote are fun, quirky and extremely enjoyable!Simply put, this is a must-own title.  I simply can't remember the last time I was addicted to a game like I am now.  I played for hours on the first sitting and had to rip myself away from it to get some sleep!  If you have a Wii, you'll be doing yourself a disservice if you pass this one up.