5.0
0.8333333333333334
There are strong opinions on this game, and it might not be for everyone.  However, here are some (brief) facts that make the game stand out and may make it right for you:Elder Scrolls games are (in)famous for overwhelming the user with things to do.  This is very much different from games that have one main quest and a couple side quests.  This game has literally hundreds of quests, with an AI system that generates more.  Fortunately, the game comes with a comprehensive quest log, complete with details, direction markers, and fast travel.  If you play this game, you may feel as though there's too much to do, and the quests get boring.  If that's the case, you're not playing it the way it was designed.  Don't try and do everything in one playthrough.  Pick the quests that interest you and do them, ignoring the rest.  You can even do the main quest line, and go do other things for a while.  This game may seem like it has "fetch" quests, but once again, that's not how it's designed.  A fetch quest is something that makes you go to an area and do something, just for the sake of taking up time.  Quests in this game have you explore a new area to advance some plot or subplot.  If it seems like a boring quest, just don't do it.  There is always something else to do in this game.Next, this game has "junk".  There are brooms, bowls, and clothing irons strewn about this game.  This is important because it greatly adds to the realism.  You can pick up books and read them for some fascinating background information, or you can become a master thief who steels cheese wheels from all around the world.This brings me to my next point.  You can break the game mechanics and become godly.  Bethesda is very liberal about you doing whatever you want with the money you spent.  But this also means you can make a strong character without following a certain archetype.  You don't have to become a plated giant and get the single best sword to overcome a dragon.  Whichever weapons you want to use, whichever character style, there is always more than one way to overcome a challenge.One final positive about this game is the massive world you can freely roam.  From the start, you can go virtually anywhere in the world.  Even though there are very realistic paths you can travel, you are not bound to them.  Too many games force you to go along a corridor, or create a beautiful scenic view and force you to stay on a trail.  This game only limits you by physics, and loosely at that.  Many times have I not been able to find a trail up a mountain, given up, and jumped/climbed rocks until I scaled the mountain.That said, there are some technical issues.  An unfortunate trend in games since the internet came about is the fact that you can add patches later has turned the first-buyers into unpaid beta testers.  This game doesn't have any game-breaking bugs, but there are a few things that should have been fixed before the release date; mainly texture and loading issues.  If you play this on the Xbox 360, this game pushes the limits of the hardware, and you may get the occasional freeze.  Plan to clear your system cache on a regular basis.  The PS3 has similar issues.  If you play on the PC, the framerates need to be improved.  This game has some amazing graphics, but nothing ground-breaking, and it feels like you should get more performance for the image quality.  Still, this game is more-than-playable on mid-range computers.  There are many tweak guides out there that will tell you which graphical features to include or exclude for excellent performance.Now, which system to get it on?  If you have a PC, get this game for that.  It seems to run the best on that platform with the most stability.  Also, Elder Scrolls games have always had numerous mods to further customize your experience, and this game is already continuing that trend.  If you prefer to play on a console?  Go 360.  Yes, the PS3 may have better hardware for a game like this, but this game seems like it was designed for the 360, and then ported over to the PS3.  If you get it for the latter system, you're not going to get the full advantage of using a PS3, but you're going to lose the benefits that the 360 gave.  Of course, this game is still amazing however you play it, but I would rank it PC->360->PS3.