10
0.5806451612903226
Some people seem to think that you have to use WASD or the arrow keys in the menus; you don't. The mouse can be used for everything. Other people talk about the graphics being like Fallout 3 or even Oblivion; they're not. Even on Medium, the graphics are a clear step forwards, put everything on max and you have a pretty stunning game that somehow runs smoother than past Bethesda games on the same settings. The people's faces are still a little off, a bit clumsily rendered, but are still the best unmodded faces by far you'll have seen in a Bethesda game so far. So much as been added to the gameplay. The perks really allow you to customise your character in very specific ways, rather than simply doing more damage against creatures who can now take more damage as the game progresses. The combat still pales in comparison even to The Witcher 2, never mind an actually combat-focused game like Dark Souls, yet it is a lot more satisfying than in previous games, with enemies dropping to their knees when near death or begging for mercy. You can take jobs now, becoming a chef, a blacksmith or a lumberjack. Enchanting and alchemy returns too. The NPC behaviour is much improved over previous games. Rather than standing dumbly around and occasionally walking into a wall or tree, as they did in Morrowind, and rather than standing dumbly around and occasionally having in incredibly stilted conversations, like they did in Oblivion, they will now do their daily jobs, cooking, cleaning, making weapons at the forge, carrying lumber back from the nearby forest, and so on. The bard at the tavern plays various songs, actually playing the instrument used in the song, and will take requests from you, even commenting on your song choice ("Only a true Imperial would choose that one!") and receiving applause from any nearby NPCs at the end of his songs. How NPCs respond to you is varies on how you've completed certain quests; one man asked me to deliver an insulting letter to a woman that he'd written in her boyfriend's handwriting, hoping she'd then leave her boyfriend for him. I told him I'd do it, but then went to the woman in question and told her all about the plan. Now her and her boyfriend like me whereas the other guy is always rude to me. Get friendly enough with people and they'll let you stay the night in their house, eat their food and even "borrow" their weapons. All in all, an enormous step forward over previous games, and that's coming from someone who always love what Bethesda's games promised but usually ended up hating what they actually delivered.