1.0
0.7777777777777778
I would like to give this product 2.5 stars, but these are the reason I absolutely can't:1) They have nerfed (or down-graded) the assault class to the point that nobody wants to play it, which destroys the one element of the game that sets Battlefield apart from all other shooters--teamwork.  People bleed out much quicker so it's harder to get to them to revive, they don't come back full health, you can't revive after being stabbed from behind, you can't revive someone who is immediately killed but ACCEPTED the revive, etc.  Seriously, why not just eliminate assault/medic class, nobody revives anymore.  And when I do revive someone, the game oftentimes glitches and I'm not able to revive them.  My favorite part of the game is completely broken!  Did you guys go through and eliminate all aspects of teamwork from this game or what?!  Oh, the 80% assist counting as a kill is awesome, but I have probably had 100 cases where I died while killing somebody (mutual kill).  That almost never happened in Battlefield 3.  My guess is that this game is so terrible that the game can't even figure out who got the kill so it kills both of us.2) Tank runs are impossible because tanks are near useless.  The turret has about 2/3 capacity of Battlefield 3, so I'm constantly having to reload before I kill the person and they always get away.  Now recon has C4, which gives EVERYBODY something to destroy tanks with except assault class, and nobody wants to even be assault class anymore (see #1 above).  End result: everybody can kill tanks.  I finally unlocked the proximity scan and IT NEVER WORKS.  The best it does is flash an enemy on your minimap for about 2 milliseconds, then he disappears until you are dead.  And now I have to choose between proximity scan and laser designator?!  And no third seat?!!!!!!  There you guys go again with DESTROYING every aspect of teamwork in the game.  It's no longer a fun social thing but rather a desperate, every-man-for-himself call of duty style game.3) What is with my shooting up somebody with about 5 bullets only to have them stop from a dead run, turn towards me, sink one bullet into me, and drop me dead...even though all game mechanics suggest everything about that scenario is impossible.  I'm ok if I die, I don't mind if I just get owned...but don't let it happen that bull-crap way.  I can't do that to someone else even with a headshot.4) SO GLITCHY!  I don't see how they can get away with putting out a half-baked product before it is market-ready.  Do I expect a car to self-destruct at 70 mph on the interstate?  Do I expect the brakes to fail, lock up, or freeze when I have my 3 girls in the minivan with me?  Do cops expect a gun to misfire or freeze when in a fire-fight?  Do I pay to see a movie where 15% of it glitches and produces no audio?  I'm an optometrist, and would I prescribe contact lenses that stick to a patient's eye 25% of the time?  Would I use a product that produces transient vision or iffy results?  So why are any of these acceptable with a game?  Oh, right, so we can beta test it (since their beta test did jack squat) for them, endure the headache of polishing the product, and wait for the final patch that will fix everything.5) The game was such a failure that my Xbox even rejected.  I can't even count how many times my box froze trying to make sense of the game.  Hopefully it didn't sustain any damage from the game since Microsoft products don't seem to last too long anyway (my first xbox was sacrificed to the red ring of death).6) Why don't you let us do everything from the box.  I really wanted a full-sized map during gameplay (in the start menu would be fine) but you are requiring us to use a laptop or computer, and only with Xbox One.  You had a map with Battlefield 3, why would you take that away in BF4?!  Why couldn't you just take the best aspects of BF3 and add to them, instead of eliminate the things that worked and underscored the success and individuality of the game.So, since I am acting like an employee and testing your product, how about you pay me for my wasted time?  I LOVE the idea of a scaling price. How about I pay 10% of the product price since it only works properly 10% of the time, and when you get it running 100%, I will pay the rest.  That will give you an incentive and hopefully change your "screw the customer" mentality.  For the rest of the world, we don't get a paycheck until we do our job at work.  Why are you guys any different?  UNACCEPTABLE!  I thought maybe it would be better with Xbox One, but it's even worse.  And I didn't notice much of an improvement in graphics personally.You guys had so much potential, but you screwed yourself over by eliminating essential teamwork components of the game, producing another glitchy POS game that wasn't market-ready yet, and causing unparalleled frustration while living up to your reputation of worst company in America.  Sigh...so much potential.  I really looked forward to playing this game with my friends, what a let-down.  I can't believe I bought Premium.  The only reason I'm keeping it is because one of my favorite gaming buddies is a diehard battlefield fan, so I'll endure.