5.0
0.8148148148148148
It has been well over 20 years since the red-capped plumber started his very own adventure. But even after several console and handheld systems later, he is still proving that he is the most recognizable character in the video game world. Back in 1996, Mario made his 3D debut with Super Mario 64, which revolutionized 3D gaming and platforming as we now know it. Super Mario Sunshine on the GameCube further reaffirmed his top status. And now comes his triumphant return on Nintendo's Wii with Super Mario Galaxy. A lot of skepticism came about when first hearing about playing Mario on the Wii. But any previous doubts will immediately be pushed aside the moment you start playing. In the end, it is pure fun and this is a game that progresses the series while still staying true to its roots.It will be the Star Festival soon, and Princess Peach has invited Mario back to her castle to enjoy the festivities. However, Bowser and his minions foil the event by once again kidnapping the princess. It will be up to you as Mario to not only rescue Peach, but to also recover the power stars to restore the galaxies. The minute you start up the game, you are almost instantly placed right into the action. You'll soar through dreamy worlds, starry skies, and alien planets throughout outer space while defying gravity and meeting all sorts of characters. You can tell Nintendo really let their imagination run wild here. Mario also has more transformations in this game than any other game since, being able to become Fire Mario, Ice Mario, and Rainbow Mario just to name a few. Familiar faces including Goombas, Piranha Plants, and Boos all make a return here as well.With the controls of the gameplay, Nintendo has once again proved that no one knows their own hardware better. Using both the Wiimote and the Nunchuk to control is done in an almost flawless fashion. Anyone familiar with the controls of Mario 64 or Sunshine will certainly feel at home here, but newcomers should have no problem getting accustomed. The gameplay stays responsive and intuitive even while controlling Mario from various directions (sideways, upside down, etc.). The camera is also one of the best in a 3D platformer, and is a vast improvement over the previous 3D Mario games where your view often gets stuck or is simply in the way. There is also a 2-player option called Co-Star Mode in which one player controls Mario and another collects star bits. It just further adds to what cooperative fun a single-player game could be.The graphics, despite how simplistic they may be, fit the game's overall image very well. It stays in the tradition of the Mario series while not looking completely backward by today's visual standards. These are among the most creative worlds yet imaginable. The music is also very appropriate for the game's atmosphere which perfectly accents the action, and longtime Mario fans will be happy to know that a few tunes from the older games make a comeback here. Even the classic sound effects can be heard and all these nostalgic elements make the game even more enjoyable for the player. Everything about it makes you feel comfortable while you're exploring each world and it all comes together as a well-rounded interactive experience.Any fan of the Mario series or Nintendo's games should be able to enjoy Super Mario Galaxy, as well as newbies. But I would also recommend it to anyone who just wants a straight-up title that fuses together the best elements of exploration and action. It isn't overly lengthy and nor is it made to be extremely difficult, which means players of many ages can easily get into it. The only problem would be getting used to the sensitivity of the controls, but one should adjust quite quickly enough that it won't hinder gameplay. Also, if you're playing the game around other people, it might be dizzying or disorienting for those who are watching Mario running upside down. These minor issues aside, it still remains simple, enjoyable, and you can pick it up and just play. As one of the best games to come out in a long while, Super Mario Galaxy fully reinforces Nintendo's philosophy of just simply putting the fun back in gaming.