0
0.9166666666666666
I'm not going to just rant, I'll give a breakdown of why CoD: Ghosts is the absolute worst game of the franchise. 1) Graphics While improved compared to previous installments, the "new engine" used is actually an old one that's been around for quite some time. It's just "new" to CoD. Compared to other recent games, such as BF4, it's nowhere near cutting edge. But that's just the "prettiness" factor, not to mention all the bugs and anomalies. Random jumping and "pausing" occurs even on the highest end machines regardless of video settings. So horrible in fact, the menu screens are sluggish to react and appear jumpy. 2) Field of View(FOV) Currently locked at 65 degrees. What a horse would see with blinders on. Think about that, you can't see players coming at you just 32.5 degrees off to either side of your screen. 90 is considered minimum playable by most gamers, 120 being more realistic and optimal. 3) Sound Just one bar for volume. No ability to adjust SFX, in game CoD caster, nothing. It makes the already questionable positional audio more difficult to hear and every sound just kinda mushes together. Even with the best surround headsets audible cues are difficult to make out, especially footsteps. 4) Poor netcode Ghosts doesn't allow you to see your ping or even bars to see what kind of connection you have. The severe lag and warping around will constantly have your jaw dropping just trying to figure out what happened. Quite often you'll find yourself dead on the ground, seemingly instagibbed, before even a shot is fired. But watch the killcam and you'll see the other player unloading half a clip on you. Unexplainable and inexcusable coding. 5) Weapon balancing and hitboxes It's likely the poor netcode overlapping this issue, but it almost seems like weapon choice and attachments simply doesn't matter as long as you can minimize recoil. Even so, you'll wonder just how you died or "how the did that hit!?" Snipers are the only weapon I've found to be fairly consistent, but the way it's been designed......it caters to the quick scope players. The same players IW and 3arc have stated snipers are not supposed to work that way. It's a common loadout for cheaters and horrible players that even put red dot stickers on their monitors to indicate center aim. 6) Maps The worst designed maps in the history of CoD. Some are far too large for a simple 6v6. Every last one has such a multitude of angles to fire from it's impossible to cover your 6. Choke points are non-existent. Combine that with the low FOV and you'll find that most deaths you'll never see, or hear, coming. There is no equivalent of "Nuketown", no map with the exception of 1 that would make for good sniper play. Pick up a high powered SMG and you're good to go. Assault rifles would be good for many maps as well....assuming you're not the run and gun type and tend to camp more. 7) Cheaters Day one and you already have aimbots, wallhacks, the usual. External link: http://www.geek.com/games/call-of-duty-ghosts-hacked-already-aimbots-and-wall-hacks-implemented-1576060/ There you have it. There are many more smaller issues to contend with but these are the big ones. Overall the worst CoD in franchise history. If you haven't purchased the game yet, don't. If you already have it and are disappointed, return it or file a chargeback with your credit card company to get a refund. This game certainly was not as advertised and Infinity Ward Activision should be ashamed.