6
0.39705882352941174
Overall this game has a great story and engrossing and believable fantasy world that looks and feels great, but the gameplay is lacking and unless you can take enjoyment at exploring just the world and meeting the people, there is little difference to this title than there is to Oblivion. Why people liked Oblivion so much is beyond me, it was a minor improvement over Morrowind - in fact I enjoyed Morrowind more. The combat by now should be far better than what it is, and so should the stealth. The fact that it has been 8 or so years since Morrowind was released and the combat still feels the same really lets this game down, alongside the A.I being poorly pathed and difficulty settings poorly scripted, it makes the game feel more like a highly interactable novel, but not a great novel that you enjoy reading and recommend to friends, more a novel you might hear about in reviews and buy if you saw it in a charity shop. This game is hardly due of the attention it currently receives and I think it's mostly due to the mindset of the people wishing to review. Most hardy gamers, who throw themselves at fantastical franchises get too engrossed in the fact that it is as close as they can come to a living breathing fantasy world that they can explore, engage in and conquer. What they seem to forget, is the "as close as" part. While the game does draw out an epic fantasy adventure that feels unscripted and organic, where every small action seems to have consequence to larger actions and where the depth of the world is at times mesmerising there are many flaws. And the reason these shouldn't be overlooked - is that the same flaws were present in Oblivion as are present here. When I see this game getting so many 100 reviews it almost makes me sick that such a game is garnering such attention when so many of these flaws have existed for almost 6 years. Floating NPC's and objects STILL in the game since Oblivion. Poor A.I pathing, STILL in the game since Oblivion - including the very annoying friendly units getting in the way. The clunky and shallow combat system STILL in the game since MORROWIND. Melee combat is still shallow and lives a bitter taste in the mouth, it is tiresome and dull and the reason for this is its not exactly easy, but at the same time provides no satisfaction. The difficult settings in the game STILL shallow, they do nothing but bunk up stats for the enemies and for the most part makes fighting them near impossible. Taking 5 hits to die against an opponent on adept? Them taking 10 to fel? Stick it up to Master and watch as they kill you in 1 or 2 hits while they take possibly 50 sword strikes to take down. That's not an exaggeration either. The A.I don't get smarter, they just get more stats, which makes the already tedious combat more lengthy than it should be. Alongside that, if you ever get companions, they seem to believe themselves the hero - and will always block your shot with spell or arrow, or your swing with sword, axe or mace. Instead of engaging in combat that is natural, you feel like you are part of an unrehearsed college drama, swinging plastic swords at each other while you all forget at which point you are to act dead. HINT BETHESDA - Why not use certain animations and gameplay mechanics that other stealth games use, like Splinter Cell or Metal Gear or Assassins Creed, or even GTA IV that have all copied ideas from each other and other mainstream titles like Gears of War. Make combat more fluid and natural, and more with the times, take ideas again from games like Assassins Creed, where swords can actually clash, and the strength of enemies felt to a degree With all those points aside though, it has made improvements on Oblivion - I would have given Oblivion a 3, a 4 at best, but this definitely deserves a 6. It has potential, the story is much better this time around and it is much easier to get engrossed in the world and really enjoy the depth of everything to explore and do. There are certainly many hours to enjoy, whether you play them is up to you, and many of them are not really hours of fun but instead follow the grindy nature of RPG games - such as collecting ingredients, or deciding what you should and shouldn't loot from dungeons (which can be painfully lengthy due to the menu systems). The game is clearly not designed at all for PC, the mouse has different sensitivities based on x or y, and the menu system is very uninformative and difficult to manoeuvre. I play using a USB xbox360 controller I bought for racing games and it feels odd but it is far less odd than the mouse and keyboard. The game also suffers greatly from consolitis, some of the graphics are stellar, and really evoking, while others remind me of the PSX and even the SNES. Conclusion is at the top.