5.0
1.0
Those are the words of the first Dragon Shout you will learn in 2011's The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. It means, in the dovah (dragon) language, `unrelenting force.' After nearly 90 hours of game play, I don't really know how else to describe Skryim. It is, at its core, an unrelenting force. Incidentally, I also think it is responsible for a significant hike in my power bill, so perhaps `Unrelenting Energy Sink' is apt as well.Now, I'll be honest. I've started this review several times, and indeed, I even got a few people asking if I was going to review it, since I was on Xbox Live playing it non-stop. I had considered it, but it wasn't until my brother Luke came up to visit me that I finally figured out how to start the review. We spent the weekend yelling "FUS RO DAH!" and one another, and being general dorks. It clicked the day he left: I ought to open the review with the same words that I shout, in synch with my character, aptly named "Egg roll," because for me, they were integral to the game. The result of that particular Dragon Shout is to fling the character(s) in front of you flying like rag dolls, but the Unrelenting Force Shout is only one of a great many similar powers, and even then, the Shouts are only one tiny feature of a game that is so robust it hardly seems capable of a fair review. But I'll try.Skyrim is the fifth game in the Elder Scrolls series, developed by Bethesda Studios, and follows The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, which released in 2006 to critical acclaim on Xbox 360, PS3, and the PC. Skyrim follows the same multi-platform launch, and, much like Oblivion, thrusts you right into the world without so much as an iota of introduction. For those acquainted, this will feel perfectly familiar and comfortable. For those new to the series... clear your date book. The way the game handles the introduction of the milieu requires time and attention, and the more you know, most like the more you'll want to know. The Elder Scrolls universe is a rich amalgamation of the best of the Fantasy storytelling tradition, full of heroes, demons, evil gods, a bizarre array of mortal races to play as, and a history spanning thousands of years.Since The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, the epic fantasy RPG games have been known for the girth of their sandbox landscapes. Each game is set in a distinct province within the continent of Tamriel, which is in turn but one of several continents on the planet Nirn. These nations are enormous, from a game play perspective; it can take well over an hour or more to move around them without the handy fast-travel mechanic. And, impressively, even after you've spent 90 hours within the game, you still haven't come close to seeing everything. Skyrim is no different in this way than Morrowind or Oblivion, and indeed, because of the rugged mountainous landscape, it can be even more a pain in the ass to move around in than the relatively tame region of Cyrodiil (in which Oblivion takes place). However harsh it may be, it is undoubtedly a beautiful landscape, filled with natural and artificial wonders that look as if they were transferred directly out of a painting. Almost all of those landmarks are incorporated into the game's hundreds of quests and plot lines, so very little feels excessive or wasteful. With that much structure, there is bound to be some repetition, but it isn't as bad as, say, Oblivion, where structures, NPCs, and especially voice actors felt like they'd been xeroxed left and right without regard to the final piece. It made for a very repetitive experience before long, and, thankfully, Skyrim manages not to feel as claustrophobic. However, it still does suffer from repetitive structures, as many of the buildings of each town are reused. This time, though, they are more intelligently decorated to hide that, and most of the underground lairs feel distinct. And then there is the voice work. Like Oblivion, it can get repetitive, because the distinct accents of the inhabitants of the land of Skyrim can get grating. It is a step above the Oblivion, though, and that's definitely a good thing. Each town has its own unique accent, too, which is a nice touch, and lends to a feeling of diversity that builds the game out and makes it feel bigger than it really is. That said: why on Nirn do the children all have modern American accents? Every time I hear a Nord child speak, I felt jarred by the delivery of their lines. Oblivion didn't have children, and hearing the way they sound now, I find myself wishing Skyrim didn't, either.Now, I mentioned the quests and the way they are incorporated into the landscape. I also mentioned that they come by the hundreds, and I meant it. Some are as simple as "explore this" or "explore that," and the typical fantasy fetch quests, but a surprising amount eschew combat in favor of talking to individuals, doing surveillance work or investigation, and even some archaeology. The way the quests are blended and presented is nicely done, and since the majority fall into the "miscellaneous" category, the game doesn't try to budge you into doing them right away. What happens therein is that the player finds themselves wandering around, working perhaps on the main quests, or just crawling dungeons like I do, and, hey-ho, you find yourself doing one of the side quests quite by coincidence. This is entirely fitting, since my character, `Egg roll,' never promised anyone anything, and was as dodgy a fellow as could be.One of the serious flaws with Oblivion was the copy-pasted environments. Dungeons and caves all felt identical, and there was little reason to go into them. Skyrim, however, gives the player plenty of reasons to venture underground, and every environment is at least uniquely shaped, if not uniquely textured. There are dozens of dungeons to crawl (I'm being conservative with that number), and the majority of my game-time was spent strutting through abandoned corridors, smashing whatever undead or demon decided to cross my dragonborn path. The environments themselves are fun to explore, but the player is also rewarded with unique, powerful artifacts, new quests (I accidentally uncovered a massive quest line that turned out to be one of the most fun in the entire game just because I wandered into a dwarven ruin), and even new dragon shouts that beef up your already powerful character. Crawling dungeons can also expose the player to new enemy types, as well as a fair amount of back story, because, unlike some games that throw cut-scenes at the player in order to establish the narrative, Skyrim relies on player-actant events and in-game exposition via dialogue, books, and environmental cues. Personally, I prefer that kind of experiential learning and Skyrim is a feast for it.Unfortunately, the downside to that kind of storytelling (in case I've confused you, think about the Half-life games, which are constantly cited as experiential learning games) is that it can be difficult to answer important questions, like "Why me?" and "What's going on?" It's easy to miss an important cue if you aren't following along, even with the dialogue trees that the game has, and if you're not in the right place at the right time, things can fail to make any sense at all. For example, I was playing late at night when the Greybeards first called my character. Because it was late, and my housemate was asleep, I had the TV on mute, so I didn't hear it. The NPCs then proceeded to constantly remind me that the Greybeards had spoken, but, since I hadn't heard them, I had no idea what they were talking about, and just ignored it. It wasn't until I watched my fiancé play and heard the Greybeards for myself that I understood. Then I began to proceed with the main quest.Skyrim's main quest line is a bit of a misnomer to me, itself. For a game that has so many cool quests, that main one felt like a dud to me. Perhaps that is because of the way the developers created a kind of static world, in which very little changes despite the return of the dragons and the increase of dragon-related accidents that result in death. The lack of reaction on the behalf of the citizens and the game world itself made it seem as if the dragons weren't that big of a deal, and when I finally realized who the games bad guy was, I was very much overwhelmed. I don't mean to say that the main quest isn't fun, or isn't interesting. It just feels hamstrung by the sheer vast world in which it takes place. More variety, and a better focus on character design would have helped it a lot and made it feel truly epic, rather than just an expanded side-quest itself. Of all the major quests I did, the main quest was probably my least favorite. The game is chock full of awesome quests, and it's bursting at the seams with references to other fantasy works. There's so much to love there, that it's a wonder the main quest itself got so little loving.The last point that I want to touch on about Skyrim is the leveling system. Traditionally, RPG games have a set class in which you play, with a specific skill tree available for players to advance along. Progress rewards the player with learning a new skill, or becoming more proficient at a particular task (for example, lockpicking or archery). Skyrim tosses that out the window. Players choose the race they want to play from, can customize the face and/or body, and then they're thrust into the world. Instead of having a traditional class system, the game advances players along an open field of skills; separated into three fields: Combat, Magic, and Profession. Within each are a variety of skills for players to exercise, but the game limits no one from doing any of them. So, if you like one handed combat with a shield, or dual-wielding, or archery, you can do each of those, no matter who you are. Or you can do them all, like I did. My character is a match even Kratos couldn't meet, but throw a wizard against me and I'll have to run for the hills.The game's level system is very subtle. Skills players don't use often will fall by the way side as more powerful enemies demand more finesse in the skills they have been using. Once you beat the game, and probably once you're around level 35 or 40, the combat stops progressing in difficulty, so players who plateau early can go back to old skills and raise them up. However, there are only 50 perk points available to players. Perks are a feature transplanted in The Elder Scrolls from the Fallout games. For each proper level attained (this is more traditionally characteristic of RPGs, but in Skyrim, levels are awarded for bringing up a given number of skill ratings), the player is given a perk, which in some way influences their skills. Many make each skill better by 20% margins, so early investing is encouraged in order to get ahead of the difficulty curve. It's very, very well done, and it feels natural as soon as you're into the game.Skyrim is a must-play adventure. Despite its shortcomings in terms of repetition of in-game assets, voice actors, the creepy kids and some bugs here and there, the game world is beautiful, ghastly, and fearsome. Fans of fantasy will find themselves drawn deep into its web of stories, histories and plots. Skyrim plays like a series of fantasy novels and short stories set in the same realm.If you haven't, don't wait any longer. Just make sure your computer can handle it. You won't regret it.