9
0.6379310344827587
So i've played this game for the past 12 hours now. And i do have a good bit to say about it. 1.) all these people **** about the intuitiveness of the controls do have a slightly valid point, the Q command on PC for switching between "favorites" does seem a bit awkward. however, it pauses the game, where before, quick swapping weapons did not. so it adds to the your available options of combat tricks to move around and use. the menu is also a bit messed up - it needs some fixing. i wish that it had been slightly more convenient, though most people who play PC games play on generally high sensitivities, so unless you're on an m18x like i am where the screen is bigger than it should be, it's not a problem. 2.) the other things people have **** about is AI, and the sharpness of textures - easy, fix your contrast. and for AI, i feel like the majority of people who have so far played this game do not understand that this game is NOT about combat. this game has combat thrown in to develop your character and make it slightly more interesting. this game is about story lines, and personal choices. i don't care if it plays like minecraft, because this game wasn't meant to be BF3 or MW3 (which is both like and have played extensively) 3. so now that all your **** has been put aside and you 0-raters have been put in your place, we'll get to why this game get's a 9 in my book. A) the story line is perfect, as it introduces a level of depth that is accessible to all players of the spectrum in their willingness to see the world in which they live B) the game play is fun, entertaining, unique, and i have, actually, stopped to look at mountains and rivers, as well as waterfalls and even the bodies of dragons C) the game went back to religion having an actual element on the gameplay like it did in morrowind, which is nice and helps you see things. it also actually shows cultural perspectives based on races like they did in morrowind, and the levels are completely designed from scratch, which is one million times better than oblivion. As far as how this game compares to other games though? I'm still at a 9, because i do not believe that any game will ever deserve to be on the level of morrowind, even if i've played tf2 and MW3 for 10-15 hrs each this week, i thought morrowind was the beginning of everything games should be, and this was continued into skyrim, though not perfected, and thusly, i give it a 9.