5.0
0.8837209302325582
I want to buy this, and I want it to be amazing.  I really do.  And I have no doubts that it would be, if the DRM system wasn't so awful!Not too long ago I was skimming over the system requirements on Wikipedia, quickly making sure my computer would run it.  When I came to the end, I read "Constant High-Speed Internet Connection required to save games."  It actually didn't register until I had closed the webpage.  "Wait..." I said aloud, "did that just say I needed a constant internet connection?!"  I reloaded the page, and sure enough, there it was.  Not only did it say that you needed a constant high-speed internet connection, but it also said that your saved games would be stored on their servers!I stared at it in disbelief.  Surely there had been a mistake, or maybe it was a joke.  But other sources confirmed that this bizarre requirement was indeed true.  I was shocked.Why on earth would Ubisoft believe that their customers would put up with such a demand for a single-player game?  What about those of us who don't have the best of internet connections?  I really don't want to have my game paused every 5 minutes!  Also, what about those of us who travel?  If I'm in an area with no internet I guess I just have to settle playing solitaire.What about those who don't have a high-speed internet connection at all?  The game is useless to them!The list of concerns doesn't end there.  What if Ubi's servers malfunction?  They apparently already did in Europe!  What if they permanently shut down the servers?  Will I be stuck with a useless game I spent $60 on?Despite Ubi's heartfelt reassurances, I remain highly doubtful about the entire thing.I feel like I did when they still sold DRM-infested music online, only a lot worse.  If I dish out $60 for this, I sure as heck better be able to play it when I want, without worry that it will randomly die on me.Yup, I just love these anti-piracy DRM schemes.  Punish the buyers!  That'll teach those pirates!  Never mind that our legit customers are suffering more and more!  Never mind that pirates don't have to deal with the restrictions we set for our customers; and thus, significantly increasing the temptation to pirate our stuff!  Yeah, this is great!(Didn't they show that the most pirated games in the past were the ones that had DRM anyway?  This will probably be the most pirated game ever in the near future.)My hope is that Ubi will take down the DRM system, if that happens I will happily buy this game.  Until then, so long.