4.0
0.875
"Skyrim" has all the best aspects of an "Elder Scrolls" game: a vast open game world, a character leveling system based on your style of play and thousands upon thousands of quests. Players who know even a little bit of what to expect won't be disappointed.The game starts you off as a prisoner being taken to meet your fate. From there, a cut-scene moves you seamlessly into the character creation tool (where you choose their race, build and facial features). Shortly after, a terrific set piece propels you into the main story and a high-level tutorial.From then on, what you do is up to you. The developers have created a rich and unique world to explore. Every cave, ruin, and town will have something to new discover. As with "Morrowind" and "Oblivion", one doesn't PLAY "Skyrim" so much as LIVE it. The visuals are stunning and the art design borrows heavily from Scandinavian, Middle Eastern and European architecture. But it combines them in a way to create a world both familiar yet surreal.The graphics are crisp and refined, with detailed textures that truly bring the environment to life. The character models are a huge improvement over the previous games and probably the are best and most attractive they've ever been.The excellent musical score contributes strongly to the overall mood of "Skyrim", yet varies enough to fade comfortably into the background. Bethesda has also increased the number of voice actors so, unlike "Oblivion", you won't catch a non-player character having a conversation with himself. The acting itself is excellent and even boasts a bona-fide Academy Award Winner in the cast (see if you can guess who...).In many ways "Skyrim" is the next phase in the evolution of the series, taking some of the best features from both "Morrowind" and "Oblivion" while adding some of its own, chief of which are the elimination of Classes and the addition "perks". Rather than picking a Class, you just play and develop the skills that are used most. So, if you use a lot of Stealth Based skills, you'll progress into a thief-like character. And each time you level up, you have the option of adding a "perk" to a skill. Each perk enhances that skill and some perks are locked by level. While, I still miss the traditional "Class" system, the new approach does seem allow for more organic gameplay. I had "Spellsword" type character which relied heavily on One-Handed melee with some offensive spells. But I quickly became over-powered when going toe-to-toe with more advanced enemies. So I decided to add some perks to my Block skill and that literally changed the game for me...for the better.Skyrim also finds a happy medium to the dreaded "leveling problem" from "Oblivion", where enemies leveled up with the characters. While this was done as an effort to keep the game challenging, many players (myself included) felt it ruined the immersion. As you increase in level, your character should feel Epic and encountering bandits who were almost as powerful as me seemed silly. "Morrowind", on the other hand, kept the enemy levels static per location. But this meant that some areas of the game were off limits until the character had sufficient experience. Skyrim solves this by creating a leveled range...where some enemies will get tougher as your character improves, but will cap after certain levels. This keeps things challenging but still gives a high level character a feeling of power.There are hundreds (if not thousands) of quests, but an overwhelming majority of them are of the "Go here...kill this...fetch that" variety. And while the dungeons (or ruins or caves or fortresses) may look different, they all play pretty much the same: you slog through several "zones" filled with increasingly difficult enemies until reaching a Main Chamber containing a leveled boss flanked by a couple of leveled associates.  After a while, I began to dread the dungeon crawls, not out of fear for my character's safety, but because of the sheer tedium.Even the much anticipated dragon battles quickly devolve into standard monster fights after awhile. Early in the game, thought, the dragons will be a challenge. I found myself frequently luring them near towns so I could enlist the aid of guards. But the first time I brought down one of the giant flying reptiles myself, it was exhilarating! I truly felt that I had accomplished something.  However, as I developed a strategy for these battles, they too became repetitive. And much like the Oblivion Gates in "Oblivion", there is no real sense of threat. No one would die and no town would burn as a result of a dragon attack.Still, the developers have tried to make the game dynamic. In addition to the random comments NPCs make about your exploits, there are some interesting innovations around the faction quests. In one instance, joining one faction prohibits you from joining another (and sets up open antagonism with members of that group). There's also an opportunity to completely wipe out a couple of the factions, thus completely ending this quest line. And many quests are not at all what they first appear. For example, and here's a minor spoiler here, what began as a simple drinking contest became something quite different...Unfortunately, the majority of the faction quests are amazingly short and lacking in depth.  After completing four of five missions, you're suddenly promoted to the leader of that faction. The individual quest lines also seemed to be recycled plots from similar quests in "Oblivion".So after logging in close to 150 hours and finishing the main quest (along with several faction quests), I can honestly say that (with the exception of some widely documented bugs) I've enjoyed "Skyrim". However,in many ways it seems like they took a step back from the groundbreaking immersion that made "The Elder Scrolls" games the hallmark of Computer RPGs.  If only Bethesda had poured more resources into the FEEL of the game instead of the look, "Skyrim" would have been a truly worth successor. "Skyrim" is a beautiful and breathtaking place to visit, but after awhile, there's just not much to keep you there.