1
0.2638888888888889
Simply terrible. This is the worst Elder Scrolls game I've ever played, and I've been playing them for many, many years. I don't know what Bethesda was thinking, but they simply failed miserably on this one, and never again will I give Bethesda MY heard earned money for any game with Bethesda anywhere near it. First and foremost, the game is unfinished. It should have stayed in development for another 3-6 months. The UI horrible. The worst ever in a Elder Scrolls game. It's a main in the @** to navigate because it was designed for consoles, and Bethesda was too lazy to fine the UI for the PC version. If my $60 is going to support a company who is too lazy to spend a couple more days to refine the UI for the PC version, then I'll send that $60 elsewhere next time. Secondly, the combat. They went backwards instead of forwards with the combat. The screen pitches and rolls far too much. It makes me nausea and dizzy, so I started playing from third person view, which is undoubtedly, not properly implemented. It has input lag where the first person view does not, and the animations are laughable. Not to mention, avoid those trolls because they'll send you flying 200 ft in the air with one swing. Good job Bethesda! Don't take that in a positive way, because it's not -- it's meant to be a smart-@** remark telling you good job on screwing this one up after years of anticipation. Not to mention, the map system simply is terrible. Additionally, they should have just left the map out if they weren't going to do any better than this. It's so terrible it's not even usable. It doesn't help with navigation at all, unlike in Oblivion. Then within 30 minutes it the game they make you spend 30-45 minutes trying to find your way through this mountain to get to your next objective. What in the hell was Bethesda thinking if anything? I can see this after playing the game for 4-6 hours, but not as a second step in the main quest within 30-45 minutes of starting the game. Shameful Bethesda, you are now simply terrible. The ONLY reason I even gave this game a 1 is because of the soundtrack, or it would have simply just gotten a 0. Bethesda, patch this pile of junk you released, redo the UI so it's mouse friendly, fix the lag in the third person view, fix the trolls, revamp the map, because it simply sucks, add more presentation to the game, because as it is it's just a simple mindless quest grind with voice over until you reach the end of the story. There is simply nothing in the game that drives the story forward Go visit BioWare and take some lessons from them -- you can learn a lot from them. Trust me, because you flopped on this game. $60 I wish I had kept.