5.0
0.9285714285714286
For all you old-timers (like me) who thought that Mario Brothers meant hopping up and down on the heads of little characters to grow in size and earn lives, here is a probably the closest example of perfection in terms of OLD SCHOOL videogame values meeting a new Game Platform.  If you're like our family, we bought Super Paper Mario and Mario Party 8 when they first came out.  And, while my kids seemed mildly entertained, it left me kind of scratching my head, wondering "What is this?"  I didn't "get it."  And, when we popped Super Mario Galaxy into the Wii, and up flashed these full screen graphics telling the story, I was thinking, "Uh-Oh" here comes another disappointment.  Then, we started playing the game.You run.  You gain skills.  You chase.  You jump.  You maneuver.  You climb.  You fly.  You spin.  You stomp.  Oh my gosh!  How much fun is this game?  So much so, that even first timers are left smiling and asking the same question, "Can I try that again?"  Another thing that I really love about this game:  A SECOND PLAYER can assist with strategy and with "picking up stars" for points and lives, and can hold down a creature with sort of a mini-forcefield beam.This game literally transports you to another world (actually world after world if you can make it).  It makes you smile thinking, "what next?"  It's a puzzle which makes you experiment and think about how to solve the riddle?  Like how do I get inside there?  How do I outmaneuver that creature?The music is awesome.  It blends this upbeat theme which keeps you pumped up and at the same time inspires you.  A few times my kids actually jumped up with joy raising their hands in the air like Rocky!  How amazing!  A toy that actually UPLIFTS your spirits!  I knew this was a hit when my son asked for playing time with the game instead of his usual television programs which sort of feel flat and uninspired after seeing and experiencing this game.If you're a first time player, you're going to want to create a file for yourself so you can save your progress.  Save the extra files and keep them blank until you have guests over who want to try from the beginning of the game.  As you step forward, keep in mind that every level is to teach you how to do something.  How to run.  How to get used to the 3-D graphics.  How to jump.  How to avoid things.  And, mostly, how to be curious and explore.  There are free lives hidden in cool places.  There are skills that you can acquire along the way that make your character stronger.When you repeat a level, it is for a purpose.  To build your strength and endurance.  It helps you get to another place.  The biggest positive lesson I get from this game is to never quit.  Just keep going.  If there were ONE GAME that you could buy for your Wii, THIS IS IT, FOLKS.  It is a smashing example of Old School Videogame values meets this rockin' new platform.Our favorite creature to date was on one of the earlier levels.  Sort of a gigantic egg-headed creature with a long tail.  The first time you figure out how to defeat it, you sort of burst out in laughter.  You look at the way the game plays out and you just marvel at the game programmers.  BRAVO and BRAVA!  Way to go, Nintendo!  What fun!