2.0
0.7440758293838863
This review mostly details the online game play, and doesn't take into consideration the campaign.  The campaign is quite fun, but will only take about 5 hours to complete.  Remember kiddies, this is a $60 game which will require more and more $$$$ to keep playing it online as they slowly roll out the maps that should have been included in the first place.  Now they are even trying to sell you additional online experiences.  Just picture the horse being led by a carrot on a stick and expect to continue forking out money to keep playing this game.  Another thing to note about my review, is that it is based on me owning and playing all of the COD games ever created.  If you are new to this game, and it's your first experience with the Modern Warfare series, you may likely enjoy this game immensely.  So my 1 star review may not apply to the newcomer to this series, and it could merit a much different rating.If you are a huge fan of the COD series and want more and more of the exact same thing, you are in luck with this game.  I'm not saying that there is anything wrong with this, only that this is what the game still is, and has been since day 1.  The player will be able to take an average 5 to 20 steps (depending on the tiny map) from the spawn point and immediately find some fun action.  It is a very intense, "in your face" type of game, that will keep you on your toes at all times.  There isn't much for team effort with this game and its more about stats, K/D ratios, and bragging rights.  This game was designed for the runner and gunner aspect, not much for team effort or strategy.  I suspect this version is geared more towards the younger generation.  This is pretty much the same game as what it has been for release after release.  They did make some very minor tweaks, but it is essentially the same game.  In my opinion, this was the highest costing map pack I have ever purchased.  This is fine for some I suppose, but then again this review is simply my opinion, not everyone's opinion.  I imagine that there are many people who still enjoy this type of game immensely, so it will probably maintain a large following.  This game is still fun, it's just not "new" as it was hyped up to be.  So if you want even more of the same old COD, then here it is with a $60 price tag, and then some, as they roll out more maps and bait you to spend even more money.I have enjoyed playing Black OPs over the past year, I enjoyed MW2, and greatly anticipated the release of MW3.  I, like most people, was hoping for a "new" game with some freshness after seeing the commercials and hearing all the hype.  After picking up my pre-ordered copy of MW3, and a few hours of online game play, it became very apparent to me that I was extremely dissatisfied with my purchase. I sat there playing, just waiting for this "new" game to come alive after cycling through all of the tiny maps.  It never did and I found myself extremely bored with it.  I shook my head in disbelief as I looked back at myself standing in line for over 40 minutes to pick up this game.  I calmly got up, put the disk back into its case, and put it up for sale or trade for a 2nd copy of BF3 for the wife.  Thank goodness there was still a demand for this game when I traded it so I didn't loose any money.  I really expected to keep both games (BF3 and MW3) and thought I would end up playing both. But there simply is no comparison.  I'm afraid that my copy of MW3 would have just collected dust and lost value.  Hence, my decision to get rid of it so quickly and not add to the collection of old games that I no longer play that aren't worth anything to trade in.  I still shake my head in disbelief when I look back at myself standing in line for this game.I should have known better then to expect something new from this franchise.  They aren't exactly known for developing anything "new".  They are using the exact same engine that they have been using for years.  I knew that it would be similar of course, but had high hopes that it would be more then just some new (tiny) maps and some very minor tweaks.  This is the worst $60 that I have ever spent on a game.  I have enjoyed the COD franchise for years, but its grown old and tired.  To call this a new game and sell it at full retail price is a crime.  It should have been sold as a boxed expansion pack for what it is.  It is "still" sort of a fun game to play, but there isn't much new about it.  One star may seem harsh to some, but I am sticking with this because I can't think of any other game that I have purchased and was bored with so quickly.  They are even still using the same outdated P2P hosting system with all if it's known problems so nothing is new there either.  This is the very last game that I will have ever pre-ordered without reading reviews by real people who have experience the game for themselves.  I should have known better then to trust some of the so called "expert" reviews before game launch. I'm not exactly sure what makes them "experts", other than some are sponsored and paid by the developers themselves.  With this, I've learned a valuable lesson about pre-ordering games.  I won't make this mistake again.I do appreciate MW3 however for forcing me to try alternatives.  I may have never even given the alternative a chance otherwise.  There is much better out there, and I like it immensely better.  Farewell my old friend COD, its been fun through all of these years, but its time to move onto something better until you come up with something truly new and innovative.Please don't be angry with my review if you are a fanboy of the Modern Warfare series.  This isn't an attack on anyone personally, just my personal opinion of this game, the way it was marketed, and my disappointment in it.  I don't stand to gain or loose anything by taking the time to write this.  I only wished to inform those about to make the purchase so they didn't repeat my mistake.