5.0
1.0
A lot of reviews and comments I have seen claim that this game has the best graphics of any console game out there. Of the games I have seen on my console I have no arguments with that. The environments are crafted so that they have an almost real-world aspect to them.Game PlayAs far as the basic game play in Call of Duty 4, it's a first person shooter and all FPS's are essentially the same. The grenade toss or reload buttons may not be the same as Rainbow Six or Halo but if you've played any FPS for any period of time you can jump right in to a multiplayer map on COD 4 and have no problem holding your own. The only control problem I have had with COD 4 is where they have located the melee attack. It's on the right thumbstick, and you have to depress the thumbstick to stick an opponent with your knife. Sometimes I depress it unintentionally while look around or moving. Not a big deal but you can waste a precious second flailing with your knife and seconds count in this game.The audio on this game is also topnotch. If you have a good sound system and crank it up you are surrounded by sound. There's the ambient sounds of the map with distant explosions, there's the sound of rain and thunder on one map, there's the footsteps of an enemy walking on the floor above you and there are the lifelike gunshots and explosions. Like the graphics, the audio offered by this game may be the best yet for any console game.Single PlayerSupposedly the single player game is relatively short. I can't say for sure if it is or not since I haven't finished playing the single player. I've put a couple of hours into it and it's so intense that I can only play it for so long. The combat can be so realistic in its chaos that it can be draining. Expect to die a lot also. At least I did initially. Unlike Halo you just can go running and gunning in this game. You have to use the weapons available to you, utilize your cover and rely on the non-player controlled characters on your side.One complaint I have read on a message board is that friendly fire is something you have to be aware of and ready for. You can't just shoot at anything that moves, you have to sure that the target at which you are aiming is not a friendly. If you shoot one of your teammates the game resets back to the last saved point just as if you had died. Since this is supposed to be "modern warfare" you are given some assistance in determining whether or not a soldier is a friendly or a foe. Member of your outfit have their names floating over their heads if nearby and if you aim at a friendly the site on your weapon turns green and if he's a bad guy it turns red. Even with these assists, when the battle is hot and heavy it can be a challenge to determine who you should shoot at. To me, that is one of the more realistic features of this game. War is chaotic and confusing and this game captures that nicely.MultiplayerThe online multiplayer to me is the meat of this game. And, good news, I saw on a gaming news site, that new multiplayer maps are in the works. I'm sure they won't be free but anytime you get new maps for a FPS it's a good thing.NegativesI have only one real complaint about COD 4's online play. I don't like the ranking system. The ranking system is solely based on experience points. What that means is you can get in a room with player that is a level 2 and he can run the room, in a free for all match, even when everyone else is a higher rank. Your rank has nothing to do with your skill level. If you play long enough you are going increase your rank. I much prefer how Halo 3 balanced skill level and experience points. There is nothing like being in a room playing a free-for-all deathmatch with a group of equally skilled players. To me that is as exciting as gaming gets. Rarely does that happen on COD 4. There is often too much disparity between the winner and the loser in free-for-all games for my taste. When first and second get 25 and 20 kills respectively and the bottom three, in an eight player room, have between six to ten kills, then you have an unbalanced game and I can guarantee those at the bottom are not having a good time while far superior players run circles around them. I've been on both sides of that equation in COD 4 and, sure it's fun to run a room now and then, but it is very frustrating to be nothing more than a moving target for two or three ringers. There have been times while playing Halo 3 in a ranked free-for-all match where first place finished with 25 kills and there is not a player in the room with less that 15 while second and third have over 20. That is good fun, believe me.On to the positives, and there are a bunch.NewbiesFirst, I really enjoyed how COD 4 eases you into the multiplayer game. You start out playing in a limited number of maps so you don't have to learn all the maps at once. Also, you are playing with a fair number of inexperienced players because the more experienced are using a larger pool of maps. This works as you move on up in the ranks. Not until a pretty significant number of hours of gameplay do you have all the maps in your rotation. This allows you to learn a set of maps before you are thrown another couple to learn. Very smart.Stayin' AliveI can't help but to keep comparing this game to Halo since Halo is the FPS I have put the most time into over the last few years.  Unlike Halo, COD 4 awards you for staying alive.  If you get three kills in a row you get access to the UAV system (essentially a RADAR), after five kills you are allowed to call in an air strike and after 7 kills in a row you can call in a helicopter that will fly around the map and mow down your opponents.  This reward system is clever in that it encourages players to move carefully, find cover and not rely on respawning to keep them in the game.  Now if the only had a game where you had limited respawns...ClassesYou start off the multiplayer with a set of fixed classes to choose from. Each is assigned a particular set of weapons. Once you reach Lance Corporal you can create your own classes. You can pick your primary weapon, side arm and grenade combination. As you complete challenges you get access to perks which allow you to augment your weaponry and the health and strength of your character. There are limitless combinations to choose from. You are allowed five custom classes and you can set up each class how you want and you will find yourself choosing a different set up for different maps or maybe just on how you feel like playing at that moment.Ranking and ChallengesWhen you begin the multiplayer you are a private first class with a basic set of weapons and classes from which to choose. As you move up in rank and meet specific challenges you then earn perks that you can add to classes you are allowed to create. Perks include "deep impact," which gives your bullets more power thus enabling them to travel through some walls and other cover; there is "Double Tap," which allows you to increase the rate of fire for automatic weapons; there's "extreme conditioning," this allows you to sprint for longer distances (very helpful when carrying an M-60 machine gun; and "Claymore," this allows you to carry two claymore mines (The claymore is one of my favorite perks. It allows me to secure a room and then move from window to window, picking people off. There's nothing more satisfying to me than hear a claymore you set click and go boom and then see on the screen the notification that you just received five points for a kill.)Not only do you get more perks as your rank up, you also are allowed to gain access to new weapons and to add accessories to all your weapons as you complete different achievements. For example, when you reach the rank of sergeant you gain access to the M4 carbine assault rifle. As you use the weapon you gain accessories for it. Accessories like the laser sight and better camouflage. This reward system keeps the game interesting. There's a perk called "Overkill" that I really want. Overkill allows you to carry two primary weapons instead of the usual single primary weapon and a pistol. I try to move slowly and stay alive for long periods of time so I tend to run out of ammo. When I am able to carry two rifles that will no lonber be a problem.MapsThe maps are well designed. In some FPS's you can encounter the problem of spawn camping. Like in Halo 3, I have not found this to be a big problem in this game. Now, there are spots a knowledgeable player can set up in and wait for guys that are sprinting back to their favorite camping spots but I have seen very little of actual spawn camping. Spawn camping does occur but most of the spawn points have good cover and you can fight your way out if you are careful.The maps are mostly very big with areas that are tight and intricate. This makes them conducive to whatever style you like to play. There are exceptions, of course. There is a map set on a cargo ship called "Wet Work" that is pretty small and is a run and gun map. I just use a shotgun and run around plugging people and hoping for the best. Also there is a map called "Overgrown" that seems designed for those that like to snipe. The rest of the maps are balanced nicely enough to allow any strategy to work if you know what you are doing. That is one of the reasons this game is so addictive, there are several different ways you can win. As you increase your rank and get access to more weapons you will find that, depending on how you play a specific maps, you will not be choosing the same weapon all the time.WeaponsOnce you put some time into multiplayer game you eventually will have access to twenty-seven weapons in six categories. The categories are, assault rifles, submachine guns, light machine guns, handguns and shotguns. The assault rifle category gives you the most to choose from with seven rifles. My three favorites so far have been the AK-47, the M4 and the M-16. The AK-47 was helpful to me in the early rounds because it's a good all purpose weapon. Once you get the laser sight (called red dot sight in the game) unlocked for either the M-16 or the M4 I can safely bet you will abandon the AK-47 pretty quickly. It has too much recoil when compared to the other more advanced weapons you may access as the game goes on.The surprising variety of weapons is one of the aspects of this game that gives it excellent replay value. Submachine guns like the MP5 have a high rate of fire but have limited range. The M-16 is very accurate and has good stopping power but is not fully automatic. If you start spraying with the M16 before you have an enemy lined up he will probably take you out but the three round burst it shoots allows you to conserve ammunition. The M4 is fully automatic and allows you to lead your targets but if you stay alive for more than two minutes you will probably run out of ammunition. The M60 light machine gun can really mow down opponents and doesn't require a lot of reloading but it's heavy which cuts down on your mobility, it has a slow rate of fire and a lot of recoil.You can choose between three types of secondary grenades (your primary grenade is always the "frag" grenade. You start out with one of those each time you respawn but there is a perk that allows you to carry three.) The three secondary grenades are stun, flash and smoke. Flash grenades blin and deafens, stun grenades disorient and the smoke grenades...makes smoke. I never use the smoke and I don't know why anyone would. In fact, hardly anybody does. A well used stun or flash grenade can be the difference between life and death in multiplayer.FinIf I was to write a review and give this game a score I would have to give it a 9. The only thing that keeps this game from being perfect is the lack of a skill-based ranking system in multiplayer. If you enjoy running around and shooting at stuff then there isn't more fun to be had out there.