7
0.2777777777777778
Call of Duty Ghosts is a reasonable title but we were promised a major step forward and this game doesn't really highlight that in an shape or form. It is clear that Treyarch are the lead developers in the CoD franchise and not the new-look Infinity Ward who still cannot deliver an experience that is fluid and consistent. The campaign is characterless, shallow and short and at 4 hours of completion; it is hardly worth including such a feature. The multiplayer is a combination of what we've seen before from both development houses but doesn't take the series any further as promised. The games doesn't run very smoothly and is blighted by annoying niggles when the action gets chaotic. The maps seem bigger but very poorly designed and often messy. This makes the spawns terrible and sometimes you can wonder around for long periods way away from the firefights and enemies and other occasions you can spawn right in front of the opposition. This is frustrating as the action becomes favourable and unblalanced which leads to scrappy matches fought on large areas in condensed spaces with players then being planted on the outskirts, desperate to find a way back into the mix. Theatre mode has been omitted which is a major backwards step and doesn't help identifying hackers. You either need a capture card or have to accept your highlights will be living long in your memory. The general presentation seems watered down with minimal stats and features these elements have been replaced by waves of confusing menus that mean little to casual players who just want to pick up and play. The HUD presentation and general in-game graphics look dated to the extent; parodies and fan-made material has looked more impressive. The modes are a redeeming aspect along with the new create a soldier function but ultimately everything is a spin on the existing format but just adds a twist. The new modes to the playlist are interesting but SnD and Hardpoint along with Demo have been removed which may upset some gamers particularly on console. Even though I personally don't opt for such gametypes; I feel the dissatisfaction amongst those who do and it highlights along with other features that have been removed. Extinction is something on the side IW's attempt at zombies but with Aliens;- can't see that kicking off entirely but at least they've tried something other than the dreadful Spec Ops as seen in MW3. Overall Ghosts is a step back but does retain the typical positives that has made the game so popular. The omissions of theatre mode and the in-depth stats in a major blow and in some instances is unforgiveable. IW, Neversoft and Raven who have churned this title out clearly don't have the desire to match Treyarch's approach to the games. The quality and general execution is not of the same professionalism and it's all set-up for possibly Black Ops 3 to get the series back on track. I think Ghosts is decent for a CoD but after BO2; it doesn't enhance the franchise as much as we expected.