10
0.5151515151515151
I really do not know where to begin. I am not putting a fan-boy '10' up, nor am I giving Skyrim a 10 over sensationalism. This game really has earned it. Gameplay: The gameplay is more addictive than ever, and while it borrows from past Besthesda games, it still retains its own ingenuity. The combat is very violently refreshing, with very realistic 'pick-your-shot' fighting being logically most effective. You can rush in and swing your sword relentlessly and get the same, or you can gauge your opponents strikes and counter. There is more support now for a stealth themed character, and archery is actually an effective combat style now (as opposed to oblivion). Though at first being unable to block with two swords was very fickle, the point made of "you can't block with one arm supporting the hilt; the sword will fly right out of your hand" was quite valid. Skyrim has given me an actual adrenaline rush when fighting a bear. In my opinion, everything seems to just make sense now. Animation: The combat stances I have seen so far are VERY practical (i.e. they borrow from actual martial arts). The hand-to-hand stance is very tight, and well guarded (hands up, stomach tucked, chin tucked). Punches are thrown just as they are in boxing; loose and relaxed, thrown with the hip and not flailing. Running looks like running, and not like you have spaghetti noodles for arms and legs (like a troll). Ditto for walking. The finishing sequences are quite brutal, and brutally well made. While still somewhat showy, they aren't overly flamboyant with spin-flip stabby things. Jumping looks like jumping. While it seems like it shouldn't be such a big deal to make a point of 'jumping looks like jumping', so many games in the past have failed where Skyrim is finally getting a grasp of what gravity might ACTUALLY do to a jump! The animations in Skyrim are a new rung in a chain of animation technology. Graphics: Current generation graphics for sure. I am running on all ultra settings on a PC, and everything (especially the lighting) is visually impressive. If you are playing Skyrim on a 360 or PS3, you are naturally going to miss out on the best graphics Skyrim has to offer; a 256MB GPU just won't cut it. The aurora borealis in the game had me running around for 5 minutes or so just looking at the sky. THE FACES ARE AMAZING. 'Nuff said, haters gonna hate. Sound: Some of the best quality voice acting you will find around. I feel like I'm playing the main role in an action film. There are some nuances here and there, and some of the voices sound irrelevant to the setting, but I guess it supports an immigration clause. That's all I need until sound technologically transcends into perfection. UI: Anyone who doesn't understand the UI and argues 'it's made for retards' obviously has a mental deficit themselves. Think; if you are equipping a sword, you will naturally equip a sword to be used in the right hand on the left side. The sheath will be on the left so that you can reach across and unsheath the sword without having the struggle you would if it were on your right. Skyrim was made with logic in mind, so use it! Cons: So far, I've seen a few bugs such as bodies floating and a random mammoth falling from the sky to its death (perhaps it was made to be?). Such is to be expected in a games release. What matters is that most of the general population can play it and there are no bugs which detract from the gameplay itself.