3
0.5
Review of multiplayer... Even when the game isn't acting like a beta version there are far too many headscratching moments that will leave you more than a little frustrated. Cannot customize buttons yet! C'mon! I have a strange feeling that the field of view I see is about a yard behind my avatar as is obvious by the fact that I am constantly getting mowed down by people in a room that I have not even entered yet and how completely ineffective the cover I'm hiding behind seems to be. People on your own team are sometimes identified as such AFTER you've killed them (hardcore mode). Bullet pass-through with no damage. Enemy's orientation cannot possibly be true to what you are seeing is I often seem to be killed by enemies that must have guns with 90 degree bends in them. And FYI, I only play in games where it tells me my connection is maxed out, so none of these are due to a slow connection. If you pay attention, the list of balls that were dropped during the making of this game just grows and grows. The initial feeling of "I just need time to get better and improve my k/d ratio or help my team" turns to "I just need to camp all the time and memorize the places the enemy spawns and camp some more." The list of bad far outweighs the good... oh... and to the people that defend a game company that released a game when it was far from a finished product (losing progress, unavailable multiplayer games, major glitches, etc...) I have to ask if you've ever earned your own money or does mommy and daddy buy everything for you? Have you ever managed a project and been held accountable for your results? Stop letting people walk all over you and hold them accountable. It's your right as a consumer. I will admit, I did spend a lot of time playing this game, which is what has ultimately led to my low score as more and more shortcomings are revealed. So maybe if you can pick it up at a decent price you will get good value out of it, just don't expect the next gen Battlefield experience you were hoping for.