7
0.3333333333333333
The campaign is a bit dumb, most of the time computers repeating the same lines over and over again, like the beginning "They're taking cover behind the display cases!", but it still is fun, even through glitches and the shortness of it on the Wii. The multiplayer is sort of a mixed bag. The lag shooting, as it is called, from mw: reflex is back, making it hard to kill people from the sides unless you spam crazily. The lag, when it gets to its worst in multiplayer, will have you just want to throw the remote, though those are far and few moments. When it plays good, it delivers. Even though I suck with the riot shield, I used it to try out something new from previous iterations since mw2 never came to Wii, and its a blast when you get a new game play style that actually helps your team instead of being a lone one-man army. But whats bad are its glitches. Disappearing of whole floors and walls in certain maps, frame rate issues, and the now widespread "save data is corrupt" that will happen if your game freezes in multiplayer. This happened to me once, making me so mad after 8+ hours in spec ops gone down forever. Spec ops is survival mode is good, allowing you to play in all 16 multiplayer maps against wave after wave of enemies instead of black ops' one zombie map, and whats also good is the increase in difficulty every four maps, as it adds more enemies and more of a challenge. What I don't like is the leveling and, of course, the lag. First the leveling. I found myself surrounded by a bunch of people in level 1 while I was already in level 30. This gave me WAY too many advantages surviving, with more weapons, equipment, even using turrets while they had to stick with only a few weapons and constantly dying and making me revive them too much. Now the lag. It is horrid. The only times I could play online was when I was host and the other people endured the lag, which I can not understand how they could have when knifing was like trying to catch a fly without looking and shooting wasted most of your ammo. This is a big disappointment as spec ops is very fun. It made me play by myself until an ally from black ops sent me his mw3 ally code, in which this was the first match where I was not host and I wasn't lagging. These issues detract from an overall good experience that I hope it gets patched soon.