10
0.42857142857142855
This game is absolutely wonderful. Instantly my favorite COD on the Wii! This game has an exciting campaign, a fast paced multiplayer, and a strategic Spec Ops mode. The Campaign is AMAZING! The game runs at a good frame rate that's fully playable all the way through. The story line is engaging and exciting, even if you haven't played the previous Modern Warfare's. I played the first Modern Warfare only, and I found it amazing that I saw what Soap looked like. Also, Price is awesome. His model in MW1 pales in comparison to his model in MW3. The campaign has some of the best graphics I've ever seen on the Wii. The Multiplayer is also JUST as amazing. Even though I've experienced some lag sometimes, the pros far outweigh the cons. It has a wide array of guns, skins, and a customizable tag. It makes your name look professional, even though it dissapears pretty quickly when you respawn. Just like the campaign, the graphics are absolutely spectacular, and are what I think ALL Wii fans will be impressed with. The gameplay is very fast paced, and even though the hit detection isn't perfect, you are still VERY able to kill efficiently. I actually quick scoped a few people. The commentator voices are nice too. And I think the Riot Shield is a BLAST to use. Spec Ops mode... It ought to be called SPECTACULAR Ops, because its probably one of the most fun modes in a Call of Duty game I've ever played. In this mode, you(and/or an online friend) have to fight a variety of randomly placed computer players. You earn money from them, that you can use to purchase weapons from armories. (Ex. Go to Explosive Armory for Grenades, Go to gun armory for guns and attachments). I've experienced some lag with this mode, but its doesn't make the game unplayable. This mode requires a lot of strategy, and would probably be best played with a Microphone. Its team oriented because you have to support and revive your teammate, you can even share money with them. This mode is just as good as zombies from Black Ops. In conclusion, this game is a game that every Wii fan SHOULD buy if they want a great FPS experience. 9.7/10 I cant give it a 9.7 through the site, so i'm rounding it up to a 10.