5.0
0.7567567567567568
When I write a review, I do my best to give both the bad and good.  In the case of Skyrim, it's hard to find anything that is a negative.  This is the kind of game that raises the bar and begins a new generation of gaming.  Let me give you some details.  Keep in mind I will be writing a lengthy review here, because I know some people are sitting on the fence as to whether to buy.  I played Morrowind and Oblivion before this one.  I will compare them with this game to give the most accurate review possible in comparison with what you know.Here are the things I find make this game worthy of being Game of the Year (It sure has my vote...):-The graphics are breathtaking.  You will find yourself marveling at how Bethesda was able to design an engine that could handle viewing such far distances and still maintain good graphics.  I've only played the Xbox 360, and I can tell you the limiting factor of graphics is the Xbox 360 hardware.-Gameplay is changed A LOT from oblivion, and I consider this a plus.  Bethesda has completely removed the attributes (strength, willpower, intelligence, etc.) and this, trust me, is not a bad thing.  Do you remember stressing out over a good level up in oblivion?  I sure do... No more worrying about getting +5 bonuses to your attributes.  Instead, with each level up you get to increase either Health, Magicka, or Stamina.  It's an easier system to work with.  I feel like it will be easier to decide what kind of character you want to be with this system.  If you want to be a mage, increase magicka.-In oblivion, taking down an opponent could take over 20 strikes/arrows/etc.  This really bothered me because I prefer a more realistic amount of damage.  Thankfully, Bethesda has completely changed this component of the game around.  Your average foe is only going to need a few hits to take down.  Don't worry... this doesn't mean that the game is going to be easy.  I assure you that some foes (I don't want to spoil anything) will take more than a few spells or arrows to take down.  Damage is much more realistic now.-The addition of perks is going to make this game a real joy to play.  For those of you that enjoyed Fallout 3, you will definitely enjoy this aspect of the game.  Even better than Fallout 3, perks are aligned with specific skills.  As you increase skills, you gain a perk point to spend anywhere you chose. In my opinion, this system replaced the oblivion "choose who you are at the beginning of the game" system.  Your character is going to be shaped as you play, which I think is brilliant.  NOTE:  For those of you who loved oblivion and the leveling system it had, don't be too discouraged here.  Bethesda has not switched over to experience points in this game.  You still level up skills individually to grow levels.  You no longer need to choose what your major or minor skills are though.  You will essentially determine this by playing through the game and choosing how to use your perk points.-Bethesda has added a very cinematic experience to this game.  I felt that oblivion lacked this to a certain extent.  Right from the start you will feel like being part of an epic story, yet once you've finished the prologue, you are free to do anything that you please from there on forth.  I give props to them for this... I imagine it is very difficult to add a cinematic experience to a game that is pure open world goodness.-I was skeptical at the removal of armor/weapon repair and conditioning, but after playing with it for awhile I love the change!  Instead of focusing on maintaining weapons and armor, now you focus on improving them at blacksmith forges and grindstones.  After going mining for say, steel ingots or iron ingots, you can use the harvested minerals to improve the armor and weapons that you have.  The crafting component of this game is to die for.-Character design is much improved.  Just look on the internet about the difference between Oblivion orcs and Skyrim orcs.  I actually have the desire to play as a Wood Elf now!This is what I have experienced so far.  I haven't played much with enchanting or magic much as my first play through is going to be stealth based (I'm playing as a Wood elf.)  I will update this as I play more.  My only advice as of now, if you are even remotely thinking of buying this game, do so.  Unless of course, you are worried about school, work... it's going to be an addicting game.  If you still aren't sure about buying, go rent this puppy.UPDATE 11-12-11 2:12 AmThe option of fast travel still stands strong in this game.  However, this game offers something to be done ALL the time.  If you love alchemy, you will come across numerous encounters to gather all kinds of plants, herbs, and even dragonflies.  While fast traveling gets you places really quick, alchemists may find it much more beneficial to hike it.  Actually, people who are into crafting would benefit as well, as hunting wild game in this game is important for collecting hides and other crafting materials.  Besides, hunting in this game is a real blast.  (I think it's better then buying a hunting game...)A word of advice... take your time in this game.  If your looking for a fast paced action game, forget this.  Go with Call of Duty or Gears of War.  This game requires patience.  The people who enjoy it most will be the people who indulge themselves in the world Bethesda has created for us.  Read the lore, explore...  Skyrim is a big world.UPDATE 11-13-11 2:15 PmI can tell that Bethesda has hired a full team to work on dungeons.  In oblivion, I felt the dungeons all looked and felt the same.  The dungeons littering Skyrim are all unique.  Every time I enter a new dungeon, there are new surprises and puzzles.  Even the general architectural design differs between the dungeons.There are A LOT of guilds added to this one.  You will still get to enjoy the traditional guilds found in Morrowind and Oblivion, and much more.STORYLINE:  I am not going to spoil anything.  The only thing I am going to say is that the main story in this game is much improved over the main story of Oblivion.  I found the oblivion gates highly annoying.  Bethesda has taken what they have learned from making Morrowind, Fallout, and Oblivion to make the best game that they could.BUGS:  Considering how open this game is, Bethesda did wonderful with bug control.  I only found a few things that were clearly glitches:XBOX 360 Version-I saw an animal that should have been on the ground flying.  (only once)-Floating gear (Again, only once so far)I have played the PC version, and I can tell that the Xbox 360 was the system that Bethesda intended to make Skyrim for.  While the PC is going to give the best graphics and view distances (you better have great hardware...), I found numerous bugs in the PC version.  I have am both a console and PC gamer, and my personal opinion at this point is that if you just want to enjoy the game and not have to worry about glitches and such, get the Xbox 360 version.After playing over 50 hours (it is now 11-20-11), I'm still blown away at how amazing this game is.