5.0
1.0
This game is the latest entry in the great line of Mario titles in video game history.  It's similar to Super Mario Sunshine (but better) and Super Mario 64, and as much fun as the best Mario games of the past.The central conceit of this game is that Mario journeys through many small "worlds" each with its own gravity.  As a result, there's a lot of strange, disorienting gameplay, but it never gets frustrating and is always fun.  The controls are intuitive and responsive, and the gameplay is polished to the high standard that we expect from Mario games.  Although the game starts out fairly easy, some of the levels are quite challenging, even for veteran gamers.  Fortunately, it's not necessary to beat every level to finish the game, so newer players will be able to enjoy this game as well, while still having challenges to tackle.The structure of the game is similar to previous Mario titles, with Mario adventuring through various worlds trying to find stars.  After obtaining a certain number of stars, the final level is unlocked and if Mario beats Bowser you can see the ending.  However, there is a tremendous amount of content to do even after seeing the ending.  There's the challenge of getting all 120 stars, and even after you've done that there's a pleasant surprise which greatly extends the length of the game...The music and graphics in Super Mario Galaxy really deserve to be commended.  While the Wii is not nearly as powerful as the PS3 or Xbox 360, this game proves that you don't need the strongest technical specs to have great graphics.  The game is a bit cartoony, but in a beautiful and aesthetically pleasing way.  The music is also superb, which is slightly surprising for a game which does not have a tremendous amount of plot or narration.If you're a veteran gamer, you won't be disappointed by Super Mario Galaxy.  If you're new to games (as many owners of the Wii are), pick up this title to see why Mario is so popular.  This is one of the best games to come out on the current generation of consoles and will not disappoint.