5.0
0.8333333333333334
Without a doubt, this is THE game to get for your Wii. While the Wii has recently acquired a great selection of games (with more on the way pre- and post-holiday season), there are very few must-haves. Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, Guitar Hero III, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, WarioWare Smooth Moves... and soon, Smash Bros. But I own all of those games, plus much of the rest of the higher end Wii software collection, and Galaxy is without a doubt the best game of the lot. Upon purchasing it, I didn't stop playing for six hours with the exception of the short break where I changed the batteries in my Wiimote. (Caution: addicting)If you don't own a Wii, this is the game that could change your mind as far as purchasing one. The controls are instinctive, and use every single aspect of the Wii's controls to their fullest. Not only are you using the buttons and joystick, you're shaking the 'mote to perform special attacks and you're aiming the 'mote at the screen to collect items and shoot enemies. And many of the "bonus" levels require you to use the Wiimote in new ways, like the level where you're surfing and are controlled solely by the left/right tilt of the remote. Or the level where you're balanced atop a ball and control the action much like you would in the Wii's version of Monkey Ball.If you're like I was, afraid that after Mario 64 Nintendo couldn't match their old standards of re-defining gameplay (Super Mario Sunshine seemed to point to that), then worry not. Super Mario Galaxy is, without a doubt, the best video game I've played since my SNES days (and, to be fair, back then I was 12, so maybe my judgment wasn't as clear). Galaxy isn't so difficult that you can't get into it, nor is it too easy that you can't enjoy it due to frustration. Plus, there are so many extra levels beyond "beating the game" that a true fan could easily put as much time in the extras as they did rescuing the Princess in the first place.In short, this is a game I'd recommend to gamers of all ages and skill levels. If you doubt the quality of the game, just remember this was slated to be released at the Wii's launch a full year ago, but was held back in production to get everything just right. In my opinion, it was well-worth the wait.