5.0
1.0
Considering how much i hated Call of Duty 3..i wasn't looking forward to another WW2 shoot em up. And it seems neither was Activision as the developers decided to take the COD franchise in a new directionHello fictional yet modern day warfare!Like most of Call of Duty games. The action is pretty intense and exciting. Never a dull moment. Unlike most COD games, the multiplayer as been changed to be ten times better then previous installmentsThe multiplayer on Xbox live sort of resembles something like Battlefield 2. In which you fight matches and gain xp. The more xp and challenges beat, the more unlockables you can get. And wow are their a lot of unlockables! You can unlock everything from new weapons, new perks, to new multiplayer type games even. Going on a kill streak in a game will allow you to really bring the ownage in terms of calling a helicopter or air strike to rain hell and fury on your enemy. This is of course the difference from previous games. Their are probably millions of ways to kill your enemy in multiplayer and you'll probably want to switch weapons often just to beat the challenges and unlock more stuff.The single player is fun although pretty short. You mostly play as the SAS although their are also a few USMC missions. Like most COD's, it feels like it's you vs an entire army at times. But that is of course the fun of a COD game. The AI is pretty intelligent and will throw back grenades and give a last ditch effort to kill you when they're about to die. The coolest mission is probably the Spectre gunner mission in which you rain death from above on you're enemies, nothing cooler then killing a group of enemies with one shoot from the Spectre cannon. A sniper mission that takes place in Chernobyl is also a fun mission that adds elements of stealth to a pretty much run and gun gameWhen you completed the game you unlock "Arcade mode" which takes the single player experience to a whole new level. In this mode you are timed in each mission and have to score as many points as possible. Head shots as well as kill streaks boost your score up while dying and lost of time will hurt it. It allows for some replay if the player isn't interested in multiplayerGraphics and Sound are good as well. Music is kind of repetitive but then again it really won't matter over the sounds of explosions and bullets.All in all..this game is a must have! I can't think of anything bad to say about this game....