4.0
0.8571428571428571
I have played every Battlefield since the original release of 1942, and this is probably the worst release-day game in the franchise.[ORIGINAL 11-1-2013][UPDATE 11-5-2013 BELOW][UPDATE 02-19-2014 BELOW]Single-Player:The campaign is what you can expect from a FPS, simple A-B-C progression with a "meh" storyline. That's pretty much the only good thing I can say about it.The ending to the storyline was nothing short of abysmal though, it brings no closure and feels like the writers ran out of time to finish and they just programmed what they had. It really wasn't even a bad ending, because it can't really be accurately described as ending. It's more of an ever-lasting intermission.Multi-Player:[See Update Below][UPDATE]A number of the problems with the games multi-player have now been fixed, and my experience has gotten broader now that I've had some more time to fiddle with it.The release of the first set of patches has fixed the stability problems I previously mentioned, as well as seeming to have improved the progression of the NPC's in the campaign. The updates seem to have resolved both single and multi-player physics problems so that bullets actually fly as they are supposed to now.Previously, bullets fired from 20-50 meters seemed to find themselves many feet off the mark even when scope was perfectly stable, yesterday I made a 485 meter headshot, clearly the game has been cured of it's initial problems on physics.Issues that still exist, the inability to alter kits from the main game menu. Changes must be made while in-game from the Spawn Screen, or on Battlelog online. This is annoying since it's much easier to make the changes while on the same system and not in combat. This is the biggest problem I have with the BF4 interface now that a lot of things have been fixed.[UPDATE FEB 2014]There continues to be lingering problems that have really started to make this game a nightmare.While server stability is fine, the entire tracking system for player progression is now completely screwed up. Many of the point awarding elements of the game don't seem to translate back to the main profile. For example, if you earn 1000 points through kills, 400 points through ribbons, and finish an Assignment, only the 1000 Kill Points seem to be awarded to your progression, and often the Assignment resets to an unfinished state.One assignment, requiring you to kill 10 enemies, I have completed 6 times in 2 days, and it still says I have not completed it at all, and it is not properly recorded on Battlelog.This is obviously a major factor in a game that exists primarily as a multi-player experience. The resets while on their own annoying, seriously impact game play as accruing points and completing assignments is required to unlock more and better weapons. Clearly this seriously restricts upward movement of players, and is especially harmful to new players who are already out-gunned, but now find themselves unable to catch up. EA/DICE have thus far not responded to multiple player complaints about this issue.