5.0
1.0
Everyone expected gold with this new mario release. Mario 64 brought in a whole new era to the mario world and gave it some much needed fresh air. I'm very happy to say that if you loved or even liked Mario 64, you are going to love mario galaxy.Graphics: Whoever said the Wii wasn't capable of good graphics is now trying to extract their foot from their mouth. Mario Galaxy is a work of art. That's right, a work of art. The graphics aren't realistic like the graphics from Crysis, and I'm glad they aren't. The first thing you'll notice are the vibrant colors. Mario 64 looks dull and flat compared to Galaxy. Mario has never looked better. The level of detail paid to both the level and characters is really much appreciated. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful.Level Design: I was blown away by the level design in Galaxy. There is so much variety in Galaxy, it's really quite amazing. The worlds/galaxies/space rocks all look amazing. They all have their own unique feel, and all of them were carefully designed. The different environments range from lava filled worlds, beach and water worlds, graveyard/spooky worlds, breezy grassfields, space environments and many more. There were all a joy to play through.Control: Control has always been one of Mario's strong points, but also a source of frustration. Control is very similar to 64, and you get most of the same moves with an added spin attack and such. Wall jumps are easier in Galaxy thankfully. My only source of criticism for Galaxy is the orientation. When you're up on one of those space rocks, the orientation can be a little annoying. As you move around the rock, you don't maintain the same camera orientation, and as such you have to reverse your normal controls. Who is to say which way is really up when you're in space? The orientation should have stayed the same while you're circumnavigating the rock, but nothing is perfect. One of the levels involved you making your way to the top of a collapsing structure, but you had to do the whole thing while upside down. It was a bit frustrating, but I got through it eventually. By the way, flying in mario has never been more easy. It's a shame that there are only a few times when you need to fly, because it really is a joy to fly around unlike in 64. Camera angle was better than 64, but there were still times where I just couldn't get the view I needed. Not too much of a problem though.Gameplay: Don't worry about gameplay, the game is a lot of fun to play. On the whole, I thought it was easier than 64. I collected stars more quickly while dying much less. Also, if you die in the middle of a level, you usually get to return to a checkpoint in that level. The enemies are typical of Mario games, and the boss fights were actually easier. The boss finale was much easier than 64. 64 was a real challenge, but I beat the final boss fight in Galaxy without dying once. The easier difficulty level isn't a bad thing, and there are still stars that can be very challenging. I really didn't like the comet levels. There are a couple different comets that enter into orbit around the different worlds and change the gameplay in some way. I wasn't a big fan of these, and some of them were truly difficult to complete.Sound: How many times do you find yourself stopping in the middle of a game to listen to the soundtrack? Probably not very often, but you will with Galaxy. It revamps a lot of old mario favorites, but a few themes were an absolute pleasure to listen to. Some were so lyrical and musical that they wouldn't sound out of place in a symphony music hall. My favorite was from that breezy level where you fly around attached to the flowers catching wind drafts. It was really beautiful. Sound is a big plus for this Game.Overall, this is a must have for all wii owners, and a great reason for non wii owners to get a wii and play this game (if you can find one). If it weren't for the few camera and control quirks, this would be a perfect game. As it is, it is a really awesome game, and one you must play.