10
0.4222222222222222
I dont give this game a 10 so easily. I was quite skeptical about this game, but I feel it deserves a ten simply because of the many improvements and overall change it's went through since oblivion. The entire theme is changed, a more interesting main quest that is much less repetitive. (Might remind you of morrowind's epic quest) Dragons are a ton of fun and don't get old so quickly, especially when you see them intermix with combat against other enemies. The spell system has been changed, as you can no longer make your own spells. A bit disappointing, but dragon shouts make up for this. The 'perk' system is so extensive that it literally makes me fall flat on my face and go "Oh my god what should I level up?" Leveling up is a LOT more detailed now than it has in the past. It isnt just attribute raising anymore, you're literally crafting your own character. This could be the biggest improvement within the game, and the most interesting one at that. The Ai is improved from oblivion's AI. Many enemies are more dynamic, including the giants who, though being incredibly dangerous, only attack when provoked or approached too close. Wolf type enemies will hunt in packs, so expect there to be some team behavior going on among enemies. But the AI is not perfect, it is improved, but it could be better. While it shines in some places, in other places it's completely laughable. The graphics are definitely improved, though comparable to fallout 3's graphics. On the PC there is a huge level of detail difference, so upping that definitely provides for some interesting eye candy. And the shadows are greatly improved. But it is a console port, so we can't expect crysis 3. But to honest, they did a great job with the current tech, the game looks beautiful, though lack luster in other places... (Shoddy textures are common) But the environment looks great, the atmopshere is incredible, and it's a definite change of pace in the graphics department. A big thing is dual wielding, and when I say dual wielding, I mean quite anything, spell one hand, weapon the other. It's very customizable, and a big big improvement for some. The combat system itself is a bit different than oblivion's, it does require more strategy as some enemies, become quite over powering. Yes I just said that, enemies can be overpowering. The game will base enemies upon your level, but there are some enemies that will beat you to pieces in one swift hit. (The giants. *cough cough*) there are also boss battles. Yes I just said that, combat got a lot more interesting. And this isnt just including dragons.There are also finishing moves, which I find entertaining. The dungeons, I need to say this, are vastly improved. Almost every dungeon, and when I say almost, it's pretty damn near to 90 percent of them, are entirely unique in their own way. No more copy paste dungeons, the cookie cutter corner dungeons of oblivion are gone. I cant say the graphics are spectacular, but consoles hold us back. But the improvements are incredible, including in the graphics. So this game, in every right, deserves the score I gave it. Good job bethesda, you have done us well.