5.0
0.9252525252525252
Time passes really fast when you are playing this game.  The first six hours went by in the blink of an eye yesterday ... my character is at level 10 and I feel like I have barely scratched the surface of anything.  If you like these kinds of games, you will be hooked because Bethesda has managed to create something which really nails it on every level.  I am a heavily magic oriented player so I spent most of my time so far in the mages' guild in winterhold.  For some reason though the Dark Brotherhood wants me dead and sent an assassin to kill me.  I was just messing around with some conjuration spells in a forest glen and the assassin was killed by this flame creature I had conjured before I even knew what was going on.  Looted the body and found a note saying they want me dead.  Stuff like that just happens and it is awesome.  Dungeons btw are really fun and very well designed.I do have one gripe that I see has been addressed by some other reviewers who gave a low rating for the game on amazon.  That is that you have to pause the action to switch spells.  In Oblivion, I could instantly switch spells with the d-pad and then cast them with RB while wielding a sword and shield.  In Skyrim, you must assign a spell to one hand or the other, so it kind of feels like you have lost your RB button.  I can understand this complaint.However, if you have posted about this, keep in mind that your RB button is not idle. It has been reserved for shouts, and you will obtain shouts eventually although you have to play along the main quest until you get the first one.  I have none as yet because I am focused on the mages' guild for now.  However once you do you get shouts, you can instantly cast them with RB while also dual wielding whatever you choose.The bottom line though is that this game is basically like Oblivion on steroids.  If you liked Oblivion and spent 200+ hours playing it like I did, you will be addicted to Skyrim.  Having playing all through yesterday and now it's 4 am and I'm getting up to play some more rather than get some sleep, this is probably the best game I've ever played.  That's a lot of praise coming from a life long gamer.  Again, so long as you like RPG's as opposed to say, MW3 (which a lot of people are playing non stop right now as well), this is the game for you.  BTW $65 almost feels like a very low price if you were to actually measure out how many hours you are going to spend playing this game over the next year or so, and divide it by $65.  I could spend $65 in a heartbeat at say, a Jets game at the Meadowlands, but that money goes a LONG way when playing Skyrim.To sum up...why am I wasting my time typing this review?  Time to go play Skyrim.