3.0
0.7798165137614679
If you are a great fan of the days of pure Mario platform gaming, then you will love this game. It is platform gaming at its finest...and most frustrating.My complaints are these:The camera angles are often locked, but when the camera is not fixed, your control over it is extremely limited. This can be quite toublesome, considering you are in a fully 3D environment, and to make a successful jump - especially onto a moving target - can depend entirely on your view. This also can make spotting extras and secrets a matter of luck.Since Mario 64, the first two Paper Marios, and, most signifiantly, Super Mario Sunshine, I have come to expect a certain level of RPG gaming in my Mario games. There is virtually none of that in this game. And there are no side quests to speak of. Many folks who love the original Mario platform games will be thrilled with this aspect. I, however, was disappointed.Along the lines of RPGing, you do go around collecting stars and coins. But these lead to another complaint of mine. The stars you collect become superfluous by the time you are done with the first set of galaxies. You'll never, ever need as many of those stars as you collect. Unlike Donkey Kong 64, where you needed to find all the bananas or never meet up with all the bosses, you will have more than enough stars to open up all the special galaxies many times over. And although collecting 50 stars will give you extra lives, as soon as you turn off your game, those lives are gone. You start at 3 lives each time. The coins, too, are barely useful. As soon as you die in a level, your coin count drops to 0. So although you may be vigilant and capture every coin leading up to a point, once you restart a level midway through, you've lost all that work, AND you cannot go back and recollect without restarting the entire level. To me, this means there is just no point in wasting time and effort collecting the darn things in the first place.I also found the loss of control of Mario to be too frequent, and very frustrating. Spring Mario has a mind of his own; there are no subtle movements with him. The best you can hope for is that he lands about where you meant him to. And, as always, any Mario hit by flame runs around like a madman, and if you are trying to navigate some small platforms at this point, you can kiss your life goodbye. I do fully realize this is not exclusive to this game, but because of the 3D environment and difficult camera angles, there is very little you can do to save the idiot once he's been burned and is not near a rather large piece of land.And finally, a problem I found most irritating with the Wii Super Paper Mario, and now this game - there is no getting around cut scenes or dialog. Grrrr! You're fighting Bowser at the last level. You die. Again. You start from the beginning. Again. And you have to watch the cut scene. AGAIN. And you have to read the dialog. AGAIN! And all you want to do is get back on that stupid planet and have it out with Bowser! The best you can do is to slightly speed up the dialog by holding down the A button, but that is small consolation. Heck, just getting to the last Bowser fight forces you to sit through the same cinema, again and again.Okay, what DID I like? It was beautiful. Thriving, lively graphics. Some clever levels (oh, a complaint is coming on - not nearly enough puzzles...heck, were there really any puzzles?....you were lead right to the goal, with nothing really to solve or figure out in order to get there, just some fast hand-eye coordination needed).Bottom line...I found this game to have more things that were irritating than were fun. For those of you who loved Super Mario Sunshine and Donkey Kong 64, maybe Ratchet and Clank and Spyro, but are not such fans of the first three Super Mario Bros. games, or other strictly platforming games, you might also be disappointed and find this game frustrating.