10
0.0
Super Mario Galaxy, released way back in 2007 to much critical acclaim. As I will detail, this is a must-by for any Wii owner. Plot As is the case with most Mario games, the story element isn't heavily emphasized, but it is much more present in Galaxy. The game begins with Mario being invited by Princess Peach to the castle to celebrate the once-a-century Star Festival. Upon arrival, you are presented with a scene of joy: Star Bits raining down from the sky, which are then happily picked up by Toads. As you near the castle, the illusion of happiness is shattered as Bowser shows up once again and warps Peach and her castle into orbit. Mario attempts to rescue her, but is foiled by one of Bowser's Magikoopa henchman. Mario later awakens on a small planetoid, on which he meets Rosalina, who then bestows upon Mario the "Spin" ability. She then tells Mario that Bowser has stolen the Power Stars that power her Comet Observatory, rendering it immobile. With his new found power, Mario sets off to restore the Observatory's power and rescue the Princess! Gameplay and Controls The gameplay and controls for Mario games generally do not vary much, so you know what to expect. However, there are a few new additions to both though. Controls: [center] A-Jump Z-Crouch Control Pad-Camera B-Shoot a Star Bit Shake Wii Remote/Nunchuk-Spin attack C-reset camera position Pointer-Gather Star Bits, activate Pull Stars, etc. Some of the newer elements unique to Galaxy include Mario's new Spin ability, which is essentially his melee attack. Its other uses include extending the distance of his jump and activating Launch Stars, among other things. The next new feature is quite interesting; unlike in past Mario games, falling off of the edge of the level doesn't always spell the end for our plumber. Many planets have their own gravitational pull, allowing you to circumnavigate their entire body. This allows for many new and interesting gameplay scenarios which definitely add to the game's appeal. As you would have expected, Galaxy introduces several new power-ups, each bringing its own new additions to the classic Super Mario gameplay. You will find no slouching in this well crafted department. Graphics and Sound These are always a great highlight of Mario titles. Their ability to push the limits of their system's and present us with both a graphical and musical feast. Galaxy's graphics are among the best of the Wii, showcasing many brilliant landscapes, textures and particle effects. Never once are you disappointed by an area that could have been improved. In compliment to this, the soundtrack is also incredible. There are many great orchestrated pieces, as well as the return of many enhanced retro themes, such as an iconic piece from Super Mario Bros. 3. The music is a joy to listen to and makes an already great game even better. I found the Toy Time Galaxy theme to be particularly memorable. As you can see, Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best games on the Nintendo Wii, nay, ever. Its additions to the classic Mario formula, and that which remains as before, make this a truly special and nearly perfect game. Upon buying this masterpiece, you shall not be disappointed.