7
0.7058823529411765
The Good When I first played BF4, I got in a Zodiac on Hainan Resort Rush and beat the living out of the enemy, watching helicopters fly by and APC's rolling onto land. It felt epic to see as if the match I was playing was literally a campaign mission. The immersion of Battlefield 4 on the PS4 is so amazing that you will think that it is a campaign mission. The innovation of the game features more destruction brought back from BF BC2 (Doesn't really count) and other additions like closing doors, opening security gates, etc which is what makes BF4 great. The campaign on BF4 is still kinda bad however you will get a better time from it than CoD Ghosts or BF3. The Bad Battlefield 4 may be an improvement in some parts of BF3 but it is a let down in others. Some of the weapons of the game once again prove to be useless and no one will ever use them i.e. DMR's (3 hits to kill someone instead of 2). BF4 also has many server problems (See BF4 on PS4 below) which account to my frustration towards DICE. I think the worst part about this game might be the netcode or suppression. I'm not sure if suppression really does anything towards the people I'm shooting at but the netcode is atrocious in BF4 from what I've seen. I'll give DICE the benefit of the doubt that it's new and all but still, if DICE doesn't fix the netcode problem then you're going to have a bad time on BF4. Also they removed Spawn invulnerability so expect to die immediately when you spawn on your squad-mates; I advise to spawn at a deployment site or in a vehicle with your squad. BF4 on PS4 -Is this game as graphically good as the PC? No but not by much. If you have a high-end PC then get BF4 for the PC because BF4 looks as always best on the PC but if you have a low-end PC like mine that has difficulty playing BF3 Ultra settings, then get Battlefield 4 for the PS4. The PS4's raw horsepower allows the game to run 900p at 60 FPS. The 60 FPS alone should be a good thing. -Are their problems with servers like on PC version? Yes there are problems on the PS4 version like on PC however there is a problem only on the PS4 called Error CZ 34878-0. If you get this error, it means that you have a corrupted save file on your PS4 and the only way you can fix it is by deleting it. Servers crash half the time and the netcode can be atrocious sometimes. -I have a PS4 and I saw Killzone:SF and so the question is is BF4 better than KS:ZF? I can't say however I can say that KZ has dedicated servers which could be a +1 for them vs BF4 on the PS4. BF4 has the opportunity to get Multiplayer of the year and even Game of the Year (Watch TLOU get it mark my words) but unfortunately faces many problems across all platforms with servers crashing and all that happening. If DICE cannot fix the game within the year, then the final verdict for this game IMO is going to be a 6/10. If DICE can fix the game, then my final rating for the game is going to be a 9/10 because for those who are reading this. The biggest problem in the game is server crashes, other than that it's a great multiplayer game (Note Multiplayer) Hopefully DICE won't do this with SW Battlefront.