5.0
0.8181818181818182
FIRST IMPRESSIONSAnyone dreaming of hundreds of hours of immersive RPG play stretched over months and months of awesome adventures must come to Skyrim (West of Morrowind, North of Cyrodiil, by the Sea of Ghosts) because there's nothing better today.This is not a full review because it should take me months to complete the game if something the size and scope of Skyrim can ever be completed - I still bump into new quests in Oblivion 3 or 4 years after I thought I 'completed' it. So, for what is worth, this is my experience after the first few hours in Skyrim. I expect to keep updating, expanding and refining this review as I play.So... after my first few dozen hours in Skyrim... comparisons with Oblivion beg to be made and the best I can say now is that us, Oblivion veterans, this much-awaited new installment will not disappoint. The land is bigger, the views are breathtaking, the characters you encounter are more varied and significantly more intelligent, the voices and the musical score are levels above what we had in Elders Scrolls IV. And, almost to my surprise, no bugs. Sure, I've only scratched the surface but there were no crashes yet and no significant frame rate drops or maybe I was so into playing my part I didn't have time to notice them.To anyone trying or who considers trying an RPG I'd say 'go for it' because Skyrim is the best there is in this category today. By far.RPG FEATURES AND THE ELDER SCROLLS HERITAGESkyrim shares the lore and has a lot in common with Morrowind and Oblivion. I've already heard of the Blades, of the Nine, of the Thieves and, of course, the Nords who were found in and around Bruma are the majority group here. In time, I expect to uncover a lot more things in common between this world and those from prior game. Still hope to stumble upon Umbra, my favorite Oblivion sword, at the bottom of some dungeon. A lot of it feels very familiar - did I mention Sheogorath? - but there's a much more modern/advanced-looking interface that makes everything so much more fluid and more natural-feeling - if fighting a giant spider with a sword can be called 'natural'Like many 'modern' RPGs, Skyrim doesn't care much about classes. You become 'you' based on what you do and how well you do it. Practice doesn't necessarily make perfect but it certainly seems to make better. If swords is your favorite argument to settle disputes then, after much practice, you are likely to become an expert swordsman and so for. Or you can try stealth and aim at becoming the best cutthroat the world of Skyrim has ever seen. It's really up to you/me.The skills have been simplified and streamlined a little, their number reduced to 18. I didn't see 'athletics', for example and I don't believe Skyrim has such skills as 'blunt'.The magic schools are a little different with 'mysticism' gone but with 'shouts' added as a new and innovative type of magic - the longer you shout, the stronger the effect.Combat adds 'block' as an active skill. Just keeping your shield up is no longer good enough.Oh... and... 'dragons'. I've only encountered one so far and so much fun it was, especially with the rumble turned on in the controller and a good surround sound you feel the turbulence the giant wings create while flying within inches of your face and the ground shaking when the beast lands (big mistake on the dragon's part) to confront you directly.THE TECHNICAL MERITI confess that, following the bug-plagued Fallout series, I was a little apprehensive and was prepared for the worst. But, as I mentioned already, the game turns out to be bug free so far. We'll see how it behaves as we move further into the world and the interactions and dependencies multiply. I will add more to this section later but so far I'm quite impressed.By the way, the controls and the streamlined user interface feel great. And... a 3-D map? I love it.MY RATINGThe contents of my review are likely to change but I can't see how my rating could possibly go below 5 stars. Skyrim promises to be the best console game I've ever played and it's likely to stay this way for a while.->> Brush your teeth, it's the law! <<