5.0
0.8181818181818182
Mario is a huge staple in gaming.  When a Mario game comes out it can't just be "good" it has to be "great."  In the past, Mario games have defined the platformers of their generation.  From Super Mario Bros. over 20 years ago, to Super Mario 64 bringing platforming into 3D in a whole new light.  Super Mario Sunshine, however, did not turn nearly as many heads as Super Mario 64.  Understandable, seeing as how Super Mario 64 is a tough game to compare to.  Super Mario Galaxy does compare, though.  While it doesn't reinvent the wheel, it serves as an example of why Mario continues to rule the platforming genre.Mario has never been a game to pick up for its storyline.  As usual, things are peaceful in the Mushroom Kingdom.  In this case, they're enjoying the star festival.  As usual, Bowser comes in and decides to stir up trouble.  He ends up kidnapping Princess Peach and once again its up to Mario to go rescue her.  In order to reach Bowser's hideout, though, he'll have to collect power stars to do so.  It borrows a lot from Super Mario 64 in the plot development, but this is hardly the same game.  Like all Mario games, the story is simplistic.  We've been saving Peach for over 20 years and it won't be stopping soon.  You do not pick up Super Mario Galaxy for its storyline.  It's all about the gameplay.Like every Mario game, Galaxy is easy to pick up and learn but incredibly difficult to master.  Through your travels you'll control Mario as you tackle the bad guys of the Galaxy.  Mario's basic movies are all here.  He can jump, triple jump and spin.  It's very similar to Super Mario 64.  The obstacles in Mario's way however range from Bowser's troopers to natural disasters like black holes.  Getting every single star can be a tough task.  Like the other Mario games in the past, though, it isn't necessary to get every single star in order to fight the end boss.There are also suits for Mario can wear in his travels.  There is the usual flower power and invincible star, but you'll also find new suits.  There's the bee suit, which lets Mario fly.  He can turn into a Boo and go through walls.  He can even become a spring.  Needless to say, there's a lot of variety in this gameplay.There are several Wii games where the motion sensor controls have either been overused or they feel downright tacked on as an afterthought.  In Super Mario Galaxy that's not the case.  The motion sensor controls are not overused, nor are they forgotten about.  From time to time you may find yourself rolling a ball around using the Wii remote like a joystick.  Or you might be surfing on a manta ray.  You'll shake the remote to execute Mario's spin move, and there's also a star you can control to pick up star bits and fire them off at enemies.There's also a multiplayer aspect to Super Mario Galaxy, but it's certainly not all that engaging.  Player 2 can use a separate remote to control a star and collect star bits and shoot them at enemies.  Player 2 can also hold enemies still for Mario and make him jump.  That's really all there is.  Nothing more.  It's interesting at first, but it's hard to shake the fact that player 2 just doesn't do a lot of anything.Visually, Super Mario Galaxy is a pretty good looking game.  By far the best the Wii has to offer.  The detail is just incredible and the environments are gorgeous looking.  There's also a great deal of attention done with the physics.  It's fun to just jump up and watch Mario get pulled into the gravitational pull of another object.  It's pretty cool stuff.  If there was anything wrong with Super Mario Galaxy's presentation it would be that the player doesn't have complete control over the camera.  The camera work isn't bad but from time to time there will be an object in your way.  Luckily, this doesn't happen often enough to be a problem.The game also sounds brilliant.  Easily some of the best music the series has ever had.  You'll hear remixed tunes from previous Mario adventures as well as whole lot of new stuff.  It's perfectly orchestrated.  There isn't a whole lot of voice acting in Super Mario Galaxy aside from Mario's shouts and screams and Bowser grunting.  This probably won't bother most players as there isn't much story in the game anyway.Super Mario Galaxy is a great game.  It doesn't reinvent the wheel, but it has fantastic gameplay that is unmatched and unparalleled.  If you're a Wii owner, this is the game to get.Pros:+Strong and varied gameplay+Gorgeous looking environments+There's co-op play for those who want it+The game sounds really good+Tight intuitive controlsCons:-The multiplayer is not very involving-The player doesn't have control over the camera, which can be a burden in some spots