5.0
1.0
I absolutely loved Call of Duty 2, and it was the reason I bought an Xbox 360.  I played the entire single player campaign and the online multiplayer games.  I was disappointed with Call of Duty 3.  The single player campaign was ok, but I didn't like the online multiplayer as much.  It seemed to be focused solely on team based multiplayer games.  I tend to like the every man for himself games, and then once in a while I will play the team based games.Call of Duty 4 picks up the basics of the second game but thrusts it into the modern era away from the much focused on WWII.  I love history and the battles of WWII, but with all the different FPS WWII Franchises it is getting old.  CoD4 with modern weapons and enemies is a fresh take on the world of FPS war games.The single player campaign is fairly tight and entertaining.  There are a number of achievements on the Xbox 360 version for this portion of the game.  If you are more into playing the single player campaign versus online multiplayer, then you will get a great deal of achievement points.However, this game shines in the multiplayer mode.  There are so many different options of weapons, gameplay and bonus items that this game has the ultimate title of king of replay value.  The options are largely unlockables that require playing the game in multiplayer online mode to earn experience points, which help increase your rank and unlock other weapons and options.The graphics on this game are amazing!  The realism of the sights and sounds of this game will give you vivid environments and gaming experience.  You may even find yourself looking over your shoulder in real life due to the realistic gameplay in the online gaming world.Enjoy!!!EDIT: ADDITION...I have now completed the single player campaign on regular difficulty.  The single player campaign is not for the faint of heart.  It is a pretty good test even on regular.  The level where you have to get downhill back to the helicopter is hellish.  There are so many enemies and you only have so much time to do so...WOW!  The ending has a great pay off!  Then after the credits there is a mini-bonus mission on a hijacked plane.  Also very fun...I have played 1 1/2 days at least worth of online multiplayer games.  I am at a Captain level 31, and I have so much more to do.  This game has huge replay value, and it is so fun.  I think this is my vote for best game EVER!!!