5.0
1.0
Up front, let me say this.  I am not a "hardcore" gamer, and for the most part I stick to FPS games.  But all the same, this game is truly far beyond anything I've played, including Bioshock and Halo 3 and every WWII FPS I've played. The graphics are far beyond even Bioshock, the story-lines are generally short but much more compelling than Halo 3 could ever pretend to be, and the battle-simulation is far more convincing than any of the other games I've tried.  I have to admit, after the first mission I was breathing more quickly and my heart was racing.  No other game has ever elicited that sort of response.Sorry to disappoint all the fan boys out there, but this game smacks down Halo 3 and even Bioshock in about every meaningful way: storyline, graphics, online game play, "fun" factor.  If this game does not win GOTY, then then the system must be rigged.Veterans of the army and marines will appreciate the (sometimes newer) versions of the same weapons we used in our time - although the M249 and M16 variants never feed-jam, which is totally unrealistic!  Some of the audio is not quite right, too, but unless you've actually fired the weapon in question you'll not likely care much.  It kind of creeped me out looking down the iron sights of an M16/M4 variant - kind of got a flashback, but not the bad kind.  Had to retrain my trigger finger to semi/3-round versus the semi/full-auto weapons you get used to in the other fps's.  Was pretty cool to plant a claymore in the first mission, too.  "Front towards enemy"!Having witnessed the effects of AC-130 Gunships firsthand, the part of the story where you man the gunner's station is much fun!  The graphics during the sniper portion - the Ghillie suits are amazing graphically, and one of the weapons is a .50cal Barrett sniper rifle, not to mention that the storyline is flexible to the point where you can choose to engage or evade targets.  Patience, grasshopper.  Being able to call in airstrikes in some missions is a huge plus, too, and you can pick anywhere you want.This game really is a couple steps above anything else I've played.  It was well worth the price, unlike most games.The online experience is first-rate, too, although I really liked the MOH:Airborne online gameplay, too.  But COD4 has tremendous maps, graphics, audio, and a much better "instant replay" system.  There are no online achievements - I thought that a little odd but after playing the game I realize that this is a game to just play for the sheer fun of it.  Forget about achievements, it's better to just have fun!