5.0
1.0
It was roughly around this time last year that I purchased both my first Xbox and Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. My only previous experience with the Elder Scroll series was over a year spent in Morrowind and short jaunts into Oblivion via the PC. While Oblivion never really struck a chord with me, the land of Morrowind, with it's vast and varied lands and moving music was like a dream come true. Not since the heady days of Railroad Tycoon and Red Baron (both on 5.25 diskettes) did I feel transported to other lands and adventures by a mere game. So as I plugged Skyrim in for the first time and watched the opening scenes on the prison wagon as the small town of Helgen unfolded before us, I felt that old feeling again and knew I had found something very special indeed.Fast forward one year later...I have obtained a ranking of 54 on three characters ( Nord male, Imperial female and Dark Elf male) and have seen innumerable dragons of all types fall before my bow, greatsword and all-consuming flame, their souls mingling with my own. I have traveled to towering mountain peaks surrounding breath-taking views of valleys, rivers and plains and I have descended into winding and wirying caves, caverns and catacombs, obtaining all manner of treasure and delivering death in return. I have served Jarls and commoners, risen through the ranks in the Companions, the Thieves Guild and the Dark Brotherhood, taken a few classes in Mage"ology" at the College of Winterhold, faced off Thalmor agents, Forsworn natives, Dwemer centurions, Nightengale ghosts and rubbed shoulders with Daedric deities of all nature...and still there is more to do.Putting it simply, a person can get lost in Skyrim and all for the better. The game is everything I had hoped it would be and continues to be more than I could have imagined. Yes, it does have it's quirks, from the very rare freeze-upsto mammoths falling from the sky, but the few idiosyncrasies the game exhibits should be no reason not to delve into this masterpiece of video adventure and work of genius.As a final thought, I recall last year reading a remark from a person seeing the $60 price tag and quipping, " I'll wait a year from now when this game is on the $10 shelf before I pick it up." One year later, Skyrim still sells for $59 and change with slightly better deals here on Amazon...IMHO, a testament to the staying power of Creativity done with excellence and memories that will last a lifetime. If, for some reason, you have yet to try your luck and test your mettle in the land of Skyrim, I lift a tankard of mead in your honor and offer you a hearty invitation to join inwhat might be the adventure of your video gaming existence...