3.0
0.8095238095238095
Soulless is a word that bugs me when brought up during videogame debates.  Personal bias, elitist tastes and contrarian attitudes almost always misapply acceptable titles as such.  Even lesser games suffering from lackluster design have flashes of brilliance, thanks to the passionate teams coding them. However, with Modern Warfare 3, soulless could not be a more apt description.On the technical side, Modern Warfare 3 works. The aiming controls are super responsive, movement is fluid and natural, and no crippling glitches that require months of patch work are present. For that, the developers deserve credit. Everything else, not so much.I'll admit that I'm a Call of Duty 4 late straggler, but the praise for developer Infinity Ward's first non-WWII CoD is well deserved.  Its campaign mode threw numerous FPS conventions out of the window, and brought several memorable set pieces few players will forget. The nuke wiping out the marines, the tense post-Chernobyl sniper mission, the AC-130 segment with the aloof pilots passively blowing up infantry from the sky (now made scarier by a real incident mirroring the same cold detachment from its pilots); CoD4 was a marvel. Infinity Ward clearly wanted to tell a compelling story, partly inspired by actual conflicts and partly jettisoned from anti-war movies. Whether the anti-war angle worked or not is up for debate, but the passion was present. The same goes for Modern Warfare 2, despite its disjointed campaign and unbalanced multiplayer.With Modern Warfare 3, the game never escapes feeling over calculated and derivative. Take the campaign mode. Although CoD4 and MW2 had moments of heavily scripted linearity, MW3 shamelessly embraces it. During one segment, I missed two enemies after mowing down a force of thirty, and the next section halted until I found and killed them. Any sense of freedom constantly gets yanked back, which gives you the impression that you're sleepwalking through the game. MW3's set pieces try hard to re-enact CoD4's magic, but fails constantly. Even the strongest sequences don't live up to MW3's predecessors, though none rubbed me as wrong as the "controversial moment" inserted into campaign mode. Obviously, the segment's supposed to evoke MW2's "No Russian", which showed the frightening consequences of completely ditching morality for the sake of national security. MW3's version? I...guess it represents war's inevitable collateral damage to civilians? Too bad it comes off as crass and cheap. The same goes to the anti-war quotes brought up after you die. In CoD4, they worked as slight jabs against warfare without being blunt. Here? They're banal history blurbs that flash right before you annihilate troops with an AC-130.MW3's narrative is at least more cohesive as MW2's, but say goodbye to any of CoD4 and MW2's nuances for a WWIII fit for a Michael Bay film. For those solely interested in MW3 to see what happens to "Price" and "Soap", the US troops forced to go rogue after General Shepherd painted them as traitors at the end of MW2, you'd get more out of watching Youtube clips and reading a wiki. Besides, you never really control them.  Instead, you're some grunt named "Yuri" tagging along with Price and Soap, only unified in their hatred for cliched villain Makarov. This embodies what's wrong with MW3's campaign: instead of being a legendary badass, you're a straggler, panting and struggling to keep up with the big boys. Yes, Metal Gear Solid 2 did this too, but that was deliberate, as opposed to MW3's hand holding.At least multiplayer should make up for the disappointing campaign, right? Well, MW3 tweaks the multiplayer to balance out CoD's more unfair aspects, mainly by splitting the killstreaks into three systems. Assault is the killstreak system we've gotten used to since MW2. Recon, like the death streaks, is an anti-frustration measure for players susceptible to dying too frequently. Since Recon killstreaks don't reset after death, even the 8-19 player can launch support airstrikes. Specialist killstreaks are for the hard-to-exterminate experts, who can use a customizable perk system to their advantage. The question isn't whether the new killstreak system works, but why it wasn't added to MW2's addictive but very flawed multiplayer.It certainly would have been for the better, because MW3's multiplayer levels are atrociously designed. The architecture feels ripped from better CoD maps, and the branching paths confuse more than anything. Forget about strategic planning or even effective sprinting, because you'll get shot in the back a lot. Imagine your least favorite CoD4/MW2 maps, worsen their crappier qualities, and those are the MW3 maps. The new weapons are carbon copies of old favorites and the modes have barely changed. Kill Confirmed's focus on grabbing dead foes' dog tags adds a nice twist to the usual Team Deathmatch formula. Otherwise, it's the same CoD multiplayer, only more watered down.Spec Ops and the new two-player Conquest mode round out the game with co-op features. Spec Ops is mildly enjoyable for gamers craving co-op missions, but it's not worth the $60 package. Conquest is another survival mode variant, though I honestly enjoyed this more than the rest of MW3. The problem is that Conquest will inevitably be compared to Gears of War 3's updated Horde mode, which destroys Conquest in every way, and is not limited to two people. A shame, as it's the only bright spot in a sea of murky unoriginality.What's baffling is how MW3 turned out to be so god awfully bland. Game developers with good intentions inadvertently crapping out a terrible game, I can understand, but talented developers forging a forgettable sequel is...depressing. Perhaps it's a result of Infinity Ward using the now outdated Quake 3 engine yet again, and it shows, especially from the dated visuals. MW2 clearly pushed the engine to its limits, so maybe it's time to start from scratch. Treyarch's Black Ops, while not groundbreaking, did a better job keeping the CoD formula from getting stale. Expansive customization, fun and hilarious wager modes, a mildly addictive zombie mode, and an intriguing, if occasionally ludicrous, Cold War based narrative. MW3, in comparison, feels like a huge step backwards.Then again, Infinity Ward shouldn't be blamed entirely for this mechanical effort. The internet long documented the tension between publisher Activision and Infinity Ward over the latter company's unpaid royalties for MW2. It's safe to say that Activision's misdeeds forced Infinity Ward's best and brightest to leave and become Respawn Entertainment. A doubly ironic move, since fleeing EA after creative differences is how Infinity Ward got started in the first place; only to run from Activision and go right back to EA (yeah it makes no sense to me either). The split already put Modern Warfare 3 in a negative light, along with the annual Call of Duty releases and the CoD Elite service, which solidifies the series' status as a money train.  Sledgehammer Games even had to assist the weakened Infinity Ward to make MW3. Even stating all this, none of this would have mattered if MW3 turned out to be phenomenal.  Instead, what resulted is a pale imitation, void of creative drive and direction.Note to publishers. This is what happens when talented development teams get neutered for quick profit.