5.0
1.0
Super Mario Galaxy is a game that is so well crafted and exceptional that I wouldn't be surprised if it's a solid decade before the game is out done. Much like the Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Nintendo has created a game that I think will be hailed for a long time to come as one of the best video games of all time. Probably sounds like a lot of hype for a platformer (often considered a "dead" genre in today's gaming age) of a series nearing its third decade, but as an avid gamer, I really can't think of any other game more enjoyable than Galaxy.The key word there is enjoyable, because that is the single biggest success of the game, the sheer amount of fun provided in traversing the amazing and often breathtaking galaxies that Nintendo has created here. No, the game isn't going to provide the hours of playtime of an RPG or a good multiplayer racing/fighting/shooting, etc type of game, nor is it going to be talked about for its mind blowing graphics (which are still pretty spectacular I might add). And the story element is the same as it's always been in a Mario game; there really isn't one. But if you're playing a Mario game for those reasons, you're playing the wrong game anyways. Galaxy is a true platformer, and anyone who's played a game in perhaps the most famous video game series of all time should know what makes them work so flawlessly. I can't speak for everyone, but I know as a gamer that the number one reason I got into games, and will likely always be into them, is to have fun, and no game has ever fit that ticket like a Mario platformer.So then what sets Galaxy apart from all of its predecessors? In a nutshell, it's that it is nothing short of a gaming masterpiece. You have thirty something perfectly crafted galaxies that make up the game (each unique and memorable in their own way), environmental diversity (all the classic Mario levels like lava, ice, desert, ghost house, etc are here, as well as some new ones (giant toys anyone?). There's spectacular soundtrack and sound effects, the music can easily rival some of the best video game soundtracks ever. This is the first game for Wii that, to me, looks like a true seventh gen game and not something that could have been done on the GameCube. No, the Wii isn't the 360 or PS3 in terms of graphical capabilities, but that said I doubt Galaxy could look much better on either system; the game has a very solid frame rate, and is technically and artistically gorgeous. You also have all the little things like the suits, which fans of Super Mario Bros 3 will be happy to know are back in a big way. I was pleased with the Wii motion controls, which while not groundbreaking, really do add a nice component to the classic Mario gameplay. Then there are the "galaxies" of Galaxy themselves, which contain many innovations. For example gliding along a "gusty garden" themed galaxy via a flower, scaling a giant honeycomb, or navigating acrylic "space capsule" mazes are just a few examples of things I did in Galaxy, (I've) never done in a game, and are just an absolute joy to actually play. Really my only minor gripe that warrants mentioning is that the difficulty is a little on the easy side, especially for experienced gamers.I could go on forever about what makes me adore this game, but for the sake of the length of this review, I'll wrap it up. Super Mario Galaxy is not as revolutionary as games like the original Super Mario Bros or Super Mario 64, but then again will we ever again see games as innovative for their time such as those? It's also on the easy side for experienced gamers, though getting all 120 stars should provide some challenge to the hardcore crowd. None of those reasons though divert the game from being the best Mario, and one of the best games I've ever played. After the fun, but mostly redundant and gimmicky disappointment of Super Mario Sunshine, it's great to see Nintendo's plumber back at the top of the video game heap.Graphics-5/5Sound-5/5Gameplay-5/5Fun Factor-5/5Lasting Appeal-4/5Overall-5/5